Order of the State Council of the People's 
Republic of China 
No. 739 
 
The Regulations on the Supervision and Administration of Medical Devices, 
which were revised and approved at the 119th executive meeting of the State 
Council on December 21, 2020, are hereby announced and shall come into 
force on June 1, 2021.  
Premier: Li Keqiang 
February 9, 2021 
 
 
Regulations on the Supervision and 
Administration of Medical Devices 
(Order No. 276 of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China was 
released on January 4, 2000. Order No. 276 was revised and approved at the 
39th Executive Meeting of the State Council on February 12, 2014. It was 
revised according to the Decision of the State Council on Amending the 
Regulations on the Supervision and Administration of Medical Devices on 
May 4, 2017. It was revised and approved at the 119th executive meeting of 
the State Council on December 21, 2020) 
 
Chapter I General Regulation 
 
Article 1 In order to ensure the safety and effectiveness of medical devices, 
protect human health and life safety, and improvement the development of the 
medical device industry, these regulations are released. 
 
Article 2 These regulations shall apply to all activities of research and 
study, development, production, operation, use and supervision of medical 
devices domestic of the People's Republic of China. 
 
Article 3 The State Council's Drug Administration Department is 
responsible for the supervision and administration of medical devices 
nationwide. 

The relevant departments of the State Council are responsible for the 
supervision and management of medical devices within their respective 
responsibilities. 
 
Article 4 The local government at or above the county level shall 
strengthen the leadership of the medical device supervision and management 
work in its administrative area, organize and coordinate the medical device 
supervision and management work and emergency response within the 
administrative area, and strengthen the build of medical device supervision and 
management capabilities. Provide guarantee for the safety of medical 
equipment. 
 
The departments responsible for drug supervision and management of 
local people's governments at or above the county level are responsible for the 
supervision and management of medical devices in their respective 
administrative regions. The relevant departments of the local people's 
governments at or above the county level are responsible for the supervision 
and management of medical devices within their respective responsibilities. 
 
Article 5 Medical device supervision and management shall follow the 
principles of risk management, full-process control, scientific supervision, and 
social co-governance. 
 
Article 6 The state implements classified management of medical devices 
according to the degree of risk. 
 
Class I Device is low-risk medical devices that implements routine 
management which can ensure their safety and effectiveness. 
 
Class II Device is moderate risk medical devices that requires strict control 
and management to ensure their safety and effectiveness. 
 
Class III Device is higher risk medical devices that requires special 
measures to strictly control and manage them to ensure their safety and 
effectiveness. 
 
To evaluate the risk level of a medical device, factors such as the intended 
use, structural characteristics, and use method of the medical device should be 
considered. 
 
The State Council's drug regulatory department is responsible for 
formulating the classification rules and classification catalogs of medical 
devices, and according to the production, operation and use of medical devices, 
timely analysis and evaluation of the risk changes of medical devices, and 

adjustments to the classification rules and classification level. To define and 
adjust classification rules and classification level, the opinions of medical device 
registrants, recorders, production and operation enterprises, user units, and 
industry organizations should be fully listened to, and the practice of 
international medical device classification should be referred to. The 
classification rules and classification level of medical devices shall be published 
to the public. 
 
Article 7 Medical device products shall comply with the mandatory national 
standards for medical devices; if there are no mandatory national standards, 
they shall comply with the mandatory industry standards for medical devices. 
 
Article 8 The state sets up plans and policies for the medical device 
industry, incorporates medical device innovation into the development focus, 
prioritizes the review and approval of innovative medical devices, supports the 
clinical promotion and use of innovative medical devices, and promotes the 
high-quality development of the medical device industry. The drug regulatory 
department of the State Council shall cooperate with the relevant departments 
of the State Council to implement the national medical device industry planning 
and guiding policies. 
 
Article 9 The state shall improve the medical device innovation system, 
support the basic research and application research of medical devices, 
promote the promotion and application of new medical device technologies, and 
provide support in scientific and technological projects, financing, credit, 
bidding and procurement, and medical insurance. Support enterprises to 
establish or jointly establish research and development institutions, encourage 
enterprises to cooperate with universities, scientific research institutes, medical 
institutions, etc. to carry out research and innovation of medical devices, 
strengthen intellectual property protection of medical devices, and improve 
independent innovation capabilities of medical devices. 
 
Article 10 The state strengthens the informatization of medical device 
supervision and management, improves the level of online government 
services, and facilitates the administrative licensing and filing of medical 
devices. 
 
Article 11 Medical device industry organizations shall strengthen industry 
self-discipline, promote the establishment of a credit system, supervise and 
urge enterprises to carry out production and operation activities in accordance 
with the law, and guide enterprises to be honest and trustworthy. 
 
Article 12 Medical Device company and individuals that have made 
outstanding contributions to the research and innovation of medical devices 

shall be commended and rewarded in accordance with relevant national 
regulations. 
 
Chapter II Medical device product registration and filing 
 
Article 13 Product filing management is implemented for Class I medical 
devices, and product registration management is implemented for Class II and 
Class III medical devices. 
Medical device applicant and record holders shall strengthen the quality 
management of the entire life cycle of medical devices and shall be responsible 
for the safety and effectiveness of medical devices in the entire process of 
development, production, operation, and use according to law. 
Article 14 The following materials shall be submitted for the filing of 
Class I medical device products and the registration for Class II and Class III 
medical device product registration: 
(1) Product risk analysis data, 
(2) Product technical requirements, 
(3) Product inspection report, 
(4) Clinical evaluation data, 
(5) Product IFU and label samples, 
(6) Quality management system documents related to product research 
and development, production. 
(7) Other materials needed to prove that the product is safe and effective. 
The product inspection report shall meet the requirements of the drug 
regulatory department of the State Council. It may be a self-inspection report 
of the medical device by registration applicant or filing person, or an 
inspection report issued by a qualified medical device inspection agency. 
Those which meet the requirements of Article 24 of to be exempt from 
clinical evaluation may be exempt to submit clinical evaluation materials. 
Medical device registration applicants and recorders shall ensure that the 
materials submitted are legal, true, accurate, completely and traceable. 

Article 15 For the filing of Class I medical device products, the filing 
personnel shall submit the filing materials to the department in charge of drug 
supervision and management of the municipal people's government with 
districts. 
For overseas recorders that export Class I medical devices to People 
Republic of China, the domestic company or legal personnel designated by 
the oversea medical device company shall submit the record materials and 
certification documents of the competent authority of the country (region) 
where the recorder is located to approve the sale of the medical device to the 
State Council’s drug regulatory authority. Innovative medical devices that 
have not been listed overseas may not be required to submit a certification 
document that the competent authority of the country (region) where the 
recorder is located allows the medical device to be marketed. 
The filing personnel shall complete the filing after submitting the filing 
materials in compliance with these regulations to the department in charge of 
drug supervision and administration. The department in charge of drug 
supervision and administration shall, within 5 working days from the date of 
receipt of the filing materials, announce the filing-related information to the 
public through the online government service platform of the drug supervision 
and administration department of the State Council. 
If there are changes in the matters stated in the filing materials, the filing 
shall be changed to the original filing department. 
Article 16 To apply for the registration of Class II medical device 
products, the registration applicant shall submit the registration application 
materials to the drug regulatory department of the people's government of the 
province, autonomous region, or municipality directly under the Central 
Government where it is located. To apply for the registration of Class III 
medical device products, the registration applicant shall submit the 
registration application materials to the drug regulatory authority of the State 
Council. 
For overseas registration applicants who export Class II and Class III 
medical devices to the People of Republic China, the domestic company or 
legal personnel designated by oversea medical device company shall submit 
the registration application materials to the drug regulatory authority of the 
State Council and sale permit approved by the competent authority of the 
country (region) where the registration applicant is located. Innovative medical 
devices that have not been listed overseas may not be required to submit sale 
permit approved by the competent authority of the country (region) where the 
registration applicant is located. 

The drug regulatory authority under the State Council shall make 
provisions on the procedures and requirements for medical device registration 
review, and strengthen the supervision and guidance of the drug regulatory 
authority of the people's government of provinces, autonomous regions, and 
municipalities directly under the Central Government. 
Article 17 The drug regulatory authority who accepts the registration 
application shall review the safety and effectiveness of the medical device, as 
well as the registration applicant's ability to ensure the safety and effective 
quality management of the medical device. 
The drug regulatory authority who accepts the registration application 
shall forward the registration application materials to the technical review 
agency within 3 working days from the date of acceptance of the registration 
application. The technical review agency shall submit the review comments to 
the drug regulatory authority that accepts the registration application as the 
basis for review and approval after completing the technical review. 
When the drug regulatory authority who accepts the registration, if 
considers it necessary to verify the quality management system when 
organizing the technical review of the medical device, it shall organize the 
quality management system verification. 
Article 18 The drug regulatory authority who accepts the registration 
application shall decide within 20 working days from the date of receipt of the 
review opinion. For those that meet the conditions, the registration shall be 
approved, and a medical device registration certificate shall be issued; for 
those that do not meet the conditions, the registration shall not be granted, 
and the reasons will be given in writing. 
The drug regulatory authority that accepts the registration application shall, 
within 5 working days from the date of approval of the registration of the medical 
device, announce the registration-related information to the public through the 
online government service platform of the drug regulatory authority of the State 
Council. 
Article 19 For medical devices that are used to treat rare diseases, 
severely life-threatening diseases without effective treatment, and respond to 
public health incidents and other urgently needed medical devices, the drug 
regulatory authority that accepts the registration application may make a 
conditional approval decision. Relevant matters are stated in the medical 
device registration certificate. 
In the event of a particularly major public health emergency or other 
emergencies that seriously threaten public health, the health authority of the 

State Council shall make recommendations for emergency use of medical 
devices according to the needs of prevention and control of the incident. After 
the approval by the drug regulatory authority of the State Council, the 
Emergency use within the scope and time limit. 
Article 20 The registrant applicant and the filing recorder of medical 
devices personnel shall perform the following obligations: 
(1) Establish a quality management system suitable for the product and 
maintain effective operation, 
(2) Set up post-market research and risk management and control plans 
and ensure their effective implementation, 
(3) Conduct monitoring and re-evaluation of adverse events in 
accordance with the law, 
(4) Establish and implement a product traceability and recall system, 
(5) Other obligations stipulated by the drug regulatory department of the 
State Council. 
The domestic company or legal personnel designated by the overseas 
medical device registrant and filing personnel shall assist the registrant and 
filing party in fulfilling the obligations stipulated in the preceding paragraph. 
 
Article 21 For the registered medical device products of class II and class 
III, the design, raw materials, production process, scope of application, method 
of use, etc. have undergone substantial changes, which may affect the safety 
and effectiveness of the medical device, registration personnel should apply to 
the original registration department to go through the formalities for registration 
modification; if other changes occur, they should be filed or reported in 
accordance with the regulations of the drug regulatory department under the 
State Council. 
Article 22 The effective period of the medical device registration 
certificate is 5 years. If the registration needs to be renewed after the 
expiration of the validity period, an application for renewal of the registration 
shall be submitted to the original registration department 6 months before the 
expiration of the validity period. 
Except for the circumstances specified in the third paragraph of this 
article, the drug regulatory authority that receives an application for renewal 
shall make a decision to approve the renewal before the expiration of the 

medical device registration certificate. If no decision is made within the time 
limit, it shall be deemed that the renewal is approved. 
In any of the following circumstances, registration shall not be renewed: 
(1) Failure to file an application for renewal of registration within the 
specific time limit, 
(2) The mandatory standards for medical devices have been revised, and 
the medical devices applying for renewal of registration cannot meet the new 
requirements, 
(3) For medical devices approved with conditions, the items specified in 
the medical device registration certificate have not been completed within the 
prescribed time limit. 
Article 23 For newly developed medical devices that have not yet been 
included in the classification catalog, the applicant may directly apply for 
product registration in accordance with the regulations on class III of medical 
device product registration, or may determine the product category based on 
the classification rules and apply to the State Council After the drug regulatory 
authority applies for category confirmation, it applies for product registration or 
product filing in accordance with the provisions of these regulations. 
For directly applying for the registration of Class III medical device products, 
the drug regulatory department of the State Council shall determine the 
category according to the degree of risk, and timely include the registered 
medical devices into the classification catalog. If the application category is 
confirmed, the drug regulatory department of the State Council shall determine 
the category of the medical device and notify the applicant within 20 working 
days from the date of acceptance of the application. 
Article 24 The medical device product registration and filing shall be 
subject to clinical evaluation; however, if one of the following conditions is 
met, clinical evaluation may be exempted: 
(1) The working mechanism is clear, the design is finalized, the 
production process is mature, the medical devices of the same variety that 
have been marketed have been used in clinical practice for many years, and 
there is no record of serious adverse events, and the conventional use is not 
changed; 
(2) Other non-clinical evaluations can prove that the medical device is 
safe and effective. 

The drug regulatory department of the State Council shall formulate 
guidelines for clinical evaluation of medical devices. 
Article 25 The clinical evaluation of medical devices can be completed 
according to the product characteristics, clinical risks, existing clinical data, 
etc., through clinical trials, or through analysis and evaluation of the clinical 
literature and clinical data of the same variety of medical devices to prove the 
medical treatment. The equipment is safe and effective. 
In accordance with the provisions of the State Council’s drug regulatory 
authority, when conducting clinical evaluation of medical devices, if the 
existing clinical literature and clinical data are insufficient to confirm the 
product safety and effectiveness of medical devices, clinical trials should be 
carried out. 
Article 26 The clinical trials of medical devices shall be conducted in 
clinical trial institutions with corresponding conditions in accordance with the 
requirements of the quality management standards for medical device clinical 
trials, and shall be reported to the people’s government of the province, 
autonomous region, and municipality where the clinical trial sponsor is 
located. Department record. The drug supervision and administration 
department that accepts clinical trial filing shall notify the drug supervision and 
administration department and the health authority at the same level where 
the clinical trial institution is located. 
Medical device clinical trial institutions shall implement record 
management. The conditions that a medical device clinical trial institution 
should have, as well as the filing management measures and clinical trial quality 
management specifications, shall be formulated and announced by the drug 
regulatory authority of the State Council in conjunction with the health authority 
of the State Council. 
 
The state supports medical institutions to carry out clinical trials, 
incorporates the evaluation of clinical trial conditions and capabilities into the 
level review of medical institutions, and encourages medical institutions to carry 
out clinical trials of innovative medical devices. 
Article 27 If the clinical trials of Class III medical devices have a higher 
risk to the human body, it shall be approved by the drug regulatory 
department of the State Council. When examining and approving clinical 
trials, the drug regulatory authority of the State Council shall conduct a 
comprehensive analysis of the device and professionals of the institution that 
intends to undertake clinical trials of medical devices, the risk level of the 
medical devices, clinical trial implementation plans, and comparative analysis 
reports of clinical benefits and risks , And make a decision and notify the 

clinical trial sponsor within 60 working days from the date of acceptance of the 
application. Failure to notify within the time limit shall be deemed as consent. 
If a clinical trial is approved, it should be notified to the drug regulatory 
department and the health authority of the people's government of the 
province, autonomous region, or municipality where the clinical trial institution 
is located. 
Class III medical devices with higher risks to humans in clinical trials shall 
be formulated, adjusted and published by the drug regulatory authority under 
the State Council. 
Article 28 To conduct clinical trials of medical devices, ethical reviews 
shall be conducted in accordance with the regulations, the subjects shall be 
informed of the details of the purpose, use and possible risks of the trial, and 
written informed consent of the subjects shall be obtained; A person with civil 
capacity or a person with limited civil capacity shall obtain the written informed 
consent of his guardian in accordance with the law. 
In conducting clinical trials, no fees related to clinical trials shall be 
collected from subjects in any form. 
Article 29 For medical devices that are undergoing clinical trials for the 
treatment of severely life-threatening diseases that have no effective treatment 
methods, medical observations may benefit patients. After ethical review and 
informed consent, medical devices can be used for medical treatment. The 
device clinical trial institution is free for other patients with the same condition, 
and its safety data can be used for medical device registration applications. 
 
Chapter III Medical Device Production 
 
Article 30 To engage in medical device production activities, the 
following conditions shall be met: 
(1) Having the production site, environmental conditions, production 
equipment and professional and technical personnel suitable for the medical 
devices to be produced, 
(2) Having institutions or full-time inspectors and inspection equipment 
that can conduct quality inspections on the medical devices produced, 
(3) It has a management system to ensure the quality of medical devices, 
(4) Having the after-sales service capabilities that are compatible with the 
medical devices produced, 

(5) Meet the requirements specified in the product development and 
production process documents. 
Article 31 Those engaged in the production of Class I medical devices 
shall file with the department responsible for drug supervision and 
management of the municipal people’s government at the districted level, and 
complete the filing after submitting relevant materials that meet the conditions 
specified in Article 30 of these regulations.  
If a medical device recorder produces Class I medical devices on his own, 
he may submit relevant materials that meet the conditions specified in Article 
30 of these Regulations at the time of product filing in accordance with Article 
15 of these Regulations to complete the production record. 
Article 32 Those who are working on the production of Class II and Class 
III medical devices shall apply to the drug regulatory department of the local 
province, autonomous region, or municipality directly under the Central 
Government for a production license and submit relevant materials that meet 
the conditions specified in Article 30 of these Regulations. And the registration 
certificate of the medical device produced. 
The drug regulatory authority that accepts the application for production 
license shall review the application materials, conduct verification in 
accordance with the requirements of the medical device production quality 
management regulations formulated by the drug regulatory authority of the 
State Council, and make a decision within 20 working days from the date of 
accepting the application. For those that meet the prescribed conditions, a 
medical device production license is granted; for those that do not meet the 
prescribed conditions, the license is not granted, and the reasons are stated 
in writing. 
The medical device production license is valid for 5 years. If the validity 
period expires and needs to be renewed, the renewal procedures shall be 
handled in accordance with the relevant administrative license laws. 
 
Article 33 The medical device production quality management norms shall 
address matters that affect the safety and effectiveness of medical devices, 
such as the design and development of medical devices, production equipment 
conditions, raw material procurement, production process control, product 
release, and enterprise organization and staffing Clearly defined. 
Article 34 Medical device registrants and record holders may produce 
medical devices by themselves, or they may entrust enterprises that meet the 
requirements of these regulations and have corresponding conditions to 
produce medical devices. 

In the case of entrusted production of medical devices, the medical 
device registrant and recorder shall be responsible for the quality of the 
entrusted production of medical devices, and strengthen the management of 
the production activities of the entrusted production enterprises to ensure that 
they are produced in accordance with statutory requirements. The medical 
device registrant and recorder shall sign a commission agreement with the 
entrusted manufacturing enterprise to clarify the rights, obligations and 
responsibilities of both parties. The entrusted manufacturing enterprise shall 
organize production in accordance with laws and regulations, medical device 
production quality management norms, mandatory standards, product 
technical requirements and entrusted agreements, be responsible for the 
production activities, and accept the supervision of the entrusting party. 
Implantable medical devices with high risks shall not be outsource of 
manufacture, and the specific catalogue shall be regulated, adjusted and 
published by the drug regulatory department of the State Council. 
Article 35 Medical device registrants, recorders, and OEM manufacturers 
shall establish and improve a quality management system compatible with the 
medical devices produced and ensure their effective operation in accordance 
with the medical device production quality management regulations; strictly 
follow the registered or record The technical requirements of the products are 
organized to ensure that the medical devices that leave the factory meet the 
mandatory standards and the technical requirements of registered or filed 
products. 
Medical device registrants, record holders, and OEM manufacturers shall 
regularly conduct self-inspection on the operation of the quality management 
system and submit self-inspection reports in accordance with the regulations of 
the drug regulatory authority under the State Council. 
 
Article 36 If the production conditions of medical devices change and no 
longer meet the requirements of the medical device quality management 
system, the medical device registrant, recorder, and entrusted manufacturer 
shall immediately take corrective actions; if it may affect the safety and 
effectiveness of the medical device, The production activities shall be stopped 
immediately and a report shall be made to the original production license or 
production filing department. 
 
Article 37 Medical devices shall use general names. The general name 
shall comply with the medical device naming rules regulated by the drug 
regulatory authority under the State Council. 
 
Article 38 The State shall implement a unique identification system for 
medical devices step by step according to the category of medical device 

products to identify the traceability of medical devices. The specific measures 
shall be regulated by the drug regulatory department of the State Council in 
conjunction with relevant departments of the State Council. 
Article 39 Medical devices shall have Instructions for Use and labels. 
The contents of the IFU and labels shall be consistent with the relevant 
contents registered or filed to ensure authenticity and accuracy. 
The IFU and labels of medical devices shall indicate the following items: 
(1) general name, model and specifications, 
(2) The name, address and contact information of the medical device 
registrant, recorder, and entrusted manufacturing enterprise, 
(3) Date of production, period of use or expiration date, 
(4) Product performance, main structure and scope of application, 
(5) Constrain, precautions and other content that needs warning or 
reminding, 
(6) Installation and use instructions or figures, 
(7) Maintenance and maintenance methods, special transportation and 
storage conditions and methods, 
(8) Other content that should be indicated in the product technical 
requirements. 
Class II and III of medical devices should also be marked with the 
number of the medical device registration certificate. 
Medical devices used by consumers themselves should also have special 
instructions for safe use. 
 
Chapter IV Operation and use of Medical Device 
 
Article 40 To have business activities in medical device, there shall be 
business permit and storage conditions with the business scope, as well as a 
quality management system and quality management agency or quality 
management personnel. 
Article 41 For those who are doing business of Class II medical devices, 
the business enterprise shall file with the department responsible for drug 
supervision and administration of the people's government at the districted 

city level and submit relevant materials that meet the conditions specified in 
Article 40 of these Regulations. 
According to the regulations of the State Council’s drug regulatory 
department, the Class II medical devices product safety and effectiveness are 
not affected by the circulation process can be exempted from business 
registration. 
Article 42 For those have business of Class III medical devices, the 
business enterprise shall apply for business license from the department of 
the people's government at the districted city level in charge of drug 
supervision and administration and submit relevant materials that meet the 
conditions specified in Article 40 of these Regulations. 
The department responsible for drug supervision and administration that 
accepts the application for business license shall review the application 
materials, organize verification if necessary, and make a decision within 20 
working days from the date of acceptance of the application. For those that 
meet the prescribed conditions, the medical device business license shall be 
granted; for those that do not meet the prescribed conditions, the license shall 
not be granted and the reasons will be stated in writing. 
The medical device business license is valid for 5 years. If the validity 
period expires and needs to be renewed, the renewal procedures shall be 
handled in accordance with the relevant administrative license laws. 
 
Article 43 Registrants and recorders of medical devices who operate their 
registered and filed medical devices do not need to apply for a medical device 
business license or record, but they shall meet the operating conditions 
specified in these Regulations. 
 
Article 44 To have business in the operation of medical devices, one shall 
establish and improve a quality management system suitable for the medical 
devices operated in accordance with the laws and regulations and the 
requirements of the medical device operation quality management standards 
formulated by the drug regulatory department of the State Council and ensure 
its effective operation. 
Article 45 Medical device business company and user units shall 
purchase medical devices from legal qualified medical device registrants, 
record holders, and production and business companies. When purchasing 
medical devices, the supplier’s qualifications and medical device qualification 
certificates shall be checked, and a record system for purchasing inspection 
records shall be established. Operating enterprises engaged in the wholesale 

business of Class II and Class III medical devices and the retail business of 
Class III medical devices shall also establish a sales record system. 
Record items include: 
(1) The name, model, specification, and quantity of the medical device, 
(2) The production batch number, use period or expiration date, and 
sales date of the medical device, 
(3) The names of the medical device registrant, recorder, and entrusted 
manufacturing enterprise, 
(4) The name, address and contact information of the supplier or 
purchaser, 
(5) Numbers of relevant license certificates, etc. 
Purchase inspection records and sales records shall be true, accurate, 
complete, and traceable, and shall be kept in accordance with the time limit 
prescribed by the drug regulatory authority under the State Council. The state 
encourages the use of advanced technical means for recording. 
Article 46 Those have online sales of medical devices shall be medical 
device registrants, record holders or medical device business companies. 
Operators have online sales of medical devices shall inform the relevant 
information about online sales of medical devices to the department 
responsible for drug supervision and management of the people’s government 
at the municipal level where the districts are located, and operate Class I 
medical devices and Article 41 of these Regulations. Except for the second-
class medical devices specified in paragraph 2. 
Operators of e-commerce platforms that provide services for online 
transactions of medical devices shall perform real-name registration of 
operators of online medical devices, review their business licenses, filing 
conditions, and the registration and filing of medical device products they 
operate, and manage their business operations. If an e-commerce platform 
operator discovers that the networked medical device operator has violated the 
provisions of these Regulations, it shall stop and immediately report to the 
medical device operator’s location of the districted municipal people’s 
government responsible for drug supervision and management; if serious 
violations are found, The provision of online trading platform services should be 
stopped immediately. 
 

Article 47 Transportation and storage of medical devices shall comply with 
the requirements of medical device instructions and labeling; if there are special 
requirements for environmental conditions such as temperature and humidity, 
corresponding measures shall be taken to ensure the safety and effectiveness 
of medical devices. 
Article 48 A medical device user unit shall have storage places and 
conditions suitable for the variety and quantity of medical devices in use. The 
medical device user unit shall strengthen the technical training of the staff and 
use the medical device in accordance with the requirements of the product 
manual and technical operation specifications. 
The deployment of large dimension medical equipment by the medical 
device user unit shall comply with the large dimension medical equipment 
configuration plan regulated by the health authority of the State Council, meet 
its functional positioning and clinical service needs, and have corresponding 
technical conditions, supporting facilities, and professional technology with 
corresponding qualifications and capabilities. Personnel, and have been 
approved by the health authorities of the people’s government at or above the 
provincial level to obtain a large-scale medical equipment configuration 
permit. 
The measures for the management of large dimension medical equipment 
configuration shall be formulated by the competent health department of the 
State Council in conjunction with relevant departments of the State Council. 
The list of large dimension medical equipment is proposed by the competent 
health department of the State Council in consultation with relevant 
departments of the State Council and will be implemented after being approved 
by the State Council. 
Article 49: Reusable medical devices shall be disposed in accordance 
with the regulations on disinfection and management formulated by the 
competent health department of the State Council. 
Disposable medical devices shall not be reused, and the used ones shall 
be destroyed and recorded in accordance with relevant national regulations. 
The list of single-use medical devices shall be regulated, adjusted, and 
published by the drug regulatory department of the State Council in conjunction 
with the competent health department of the State Council. The list of 
disposable medical devices should have sufficient evidence that they cannot 
be reused. Medical devices that can be reused to ensure safety and 
effectiveness are not included in the list of disposable medical devices. For 
medical devices whose design, production process, disinfection, and 
sterilization technology, etc. are improved after repeated use can be 

guaranteed to be safe and effective, a disposable medical device catalog 
should be adjusted to allow repeated use. 
 
Article 50 For medical devices that require regular inspection, inspection, 
calibration, maintenance, and maintenance, medical device users shall conduct 
inspection, inspection, calibration, maintenance, and maintenance in 
accordance with the requirements of the product manual and record them, and 
conduct timely analysis and evaluation. Ensure that medical devices are in 
good condition and guarantee the quality of use; for large-scale medical devices 
with a long service life, use files should be established one by one to record 
their use, maintenance, transfer, actual use time and other matters. The record 
retention period shall not be less than 5 years after the expiration of the 
prescribed use period of the medical device. 
Article 51 The medical device user unit shall properly preserve the 
original materials of the Class III medical device purchased and ensure that 
the information is traceable. 
When large dimension medical devices and implantable and interventional 
medical devices are used, information such as the name of the medical device, 
key technical parameters, and necessary information closely related to the 
quality and safety of use shall be recorded in relevant records such as medical 
records. 
 
Article 52 If the medical device used is found to have potential safety 
hazards, the medical device user unit shall immediately stop using it, and notify 
the medical device registrant, recorder or other organization responsible for 
product quality to perform maintenance; after the maintenance, the safety of 
use cannot be achieved Standard medical equipment must not be used 
anymore. 
 
Article 53 For in-vitro diagnostic reagents that do not have the same 
product on the market in China, qualified medical institutions can develop them 
on their own according to the clinical needs of their own units, and use them in 
their own units under the guidance of medical practitioners. The specific 
management measures shall be formulated by the drug regulatory department 
of the State Council in conjunction with the health authority of the State Council. 
 
Article 54 The department responsible for drug supervision and 
management and the health authority shall, in accordance with their respective 
duties, supervise and manage the quality of medical devices and the behavior 
of medical devices in use. 
 
Article 55 Medical device business enterprises and user units shall not 
operate or use medical devices that have not been registered or filed in 

accordance with the law, have no qualified certification documents, and have 
expired, expired, or eliminated. 
 
Article 56 In the transfer of medical devices in use between medical device 
users, the transferor shall ensure that the transferred medical devices are safe 
and effective, and shall not transfer expired, invalid, obsolete, or unqualified 
medical devices. 
Article 57 Imported medical devices shall be medical devices that have 
been registered or filed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter II of 
these Regulations. 
Imported medical devices should have Chinese IFU and Chinese labels. 
The IFU and labels shall comply with the requirements of these regulations 
and relevant mandatory standards, and the IFU shall state the origin of the 
medical device and the name, address and contact information of the 
domestic enterprise legal person designated by the overseas medical device 
registrant and filing party. No Chinese IFU, Chinese label, or Chinese IFU or 
Chinese label that does not comply with the provisions of this article shall not 
be imported. 
If a medical institution urgently needs to import a small amount of Class II 
and Class III medical devices for clinical reasons, they may import them with 
the approval of the drug regulatory department of the State Council or the 
people's governments of provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities 
authorized by the State Council. Imported medical devices should be used for 
specific medical purposes in designated medical institutions. 
It is forbidden to import expired, out of date, and obsoleted medical devices 
that have been used. 
Article 58 Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Agency shall conduct 
inspections on imported medical devices in accordance with the law; those 
that fail the inspection shall not be imported. 
The drug regulatory department of the State Council shall promptly notify 
the national entry-exit inspection and quarantine department of the registration 
and filing of imported medical devices. The entry-exit inspection and quarantine 
agency where the import port is located shall promptly report the customs 
clearance of imported medical devices to the department in charge of the drug 
supervision and management of the municipal people's government with 
districts. 
 

Article 59 Companies exporting medical devices shall ensure that the 
medical devices they export meet the requirements of the importing country 
(region). 
Article 60 The content of medical device advertisements shall be true 
and legal and shall be subject to the medical device instructions registered or 
filed by the department responsible for drug supervision and administration, 
and shall not contain false, exaggerated, or misleading contents. 
When publishing medical device advertisements, the advertisement 
review agency designated by the people's government of the province, 
autonomous region, or municipality directly under the Central Government 
shall review the content of the advertisement and obtain the approval number 
of the medical device advertisement; it shall not be published without review. 
The drug supervision and administration department of the people's 
government at or above the provincial level shall order the suspension of 
production, import, operation and use of medical devices, and during the 
suspension period, advertisements involving such medical devices shall not 
be published. 
The examination measures for medical device advertisements shall be 
formulated by the market supervision and administration department of the 
State Council. 
 
Chapter V Medical Device Adverse Event and Recall Process 
 
Article 61 The state establishes a medical device adverse event 
monitoring system to collect, analyze, evaluate, and control medical device 
adverse events in a timely manner. 
Article 62 Medical device registrants and recorders shall establish a 
medical device adverse event monitoring system, be equipped with adverse 
event monitoring institutions and personnel suitable for their products, actively 
carry out adverse event monitoring for their products, and comply with the 
drug regulatory authority of the State Council. According to the regulations, 
report investigation, analysis, evaluation, product risk control, etc. to the 
technical agency for monitoring of medical device adverse events. 
Medical device manufacturers and users should assist medical device 
registrants and record holders in monitoring the adverse events of the medical 
devices they produce, operate or use; discover medical device adverse 
events or suspicious adverse events in accordance with the regulations of the 
State Council’s drug regulatory authority, To report to the technical agency for 
medical device adverse event monitoring. 

Other units and individuals who discover medical device adverse events or 
suspicious adverse events have the right to report to the department in charge 
of drug supervision and management or medical device adverse event 
monitoring technical institutions. 
Article 63 The drug regulatory department of the State Council shall 
strengthen the construction of a medical device adverse event monitoring 
information network. 
Medical device adverse event monitoring technical institutions should 
strengthen the monitoring of medical device adverse event information, and 
actively collect information on adverse events; if adverse events are 
discovered or received, they should be verified in a timely manner, and 
investigation, analysis, and evaluation should be carried out when necessary, 
and they should report to the responsible drug Supervising and managing 
departments and health authorities report and put forward suggestions for 
handling. 
Medical device adverse event monitoring technical institutions shall publish 
contact information to facilitate medical device registrants, record holders, 
production and operation enterprises, users, etc. to report medical device 
adverse events. 
 
Article 64 The department in charge of drug supervision and 
administration shall promptly take control measures such as issuing warning 
information and ordering the suspension of production, import, operation, and 
use based on the evaluation results of adverse events of medical devices. 
The drug supervision and administration department of the people's 
government at or above the provincial level shall, in conjunction with the 
health authorities and relevant departments at the same level, organize timely 
investigation and treatment of medical device adverse events that cause 
sudden, mass injuries or deaths, and organize strengthened monitoring of 
similar medical devices. 
The department in charge of drug supervision and management shall 
promptly notify the health authority at the same level of the adverse event 
monitoring of the medical device user unit. 
 
Article 65 Medical device registrants, record holders, production and 
operation enterprises, and users shall cooperate with medical device adverse 
event monitoring technical institutions, drug supervision and management 
departments, and health authorities in the investigation of medical device 
adverse events. 

Article 66 In any of the following circumstances, the medical device 
registrant and recorder shall take the initiative to carry out the re-evaluation of 
the medical device that has been marketed: 
(1) According to the development of scientific research, there is a change 
in the understanding of the safety and effectiveness of medical devices, 
(2) The monitoring and evaluation results of the adverse event of the 
medical device indicate that the medical device may have defects, 
(3) Other circumstances stipulated by the drug regulatory department of 
the State Council. 
The medical device registrant and recorder shall, based on the results of 
the re-evaluation, take corresponding control measures to improve the 
medical devices already on the market, and make registration changes or 
record changes in accordance with regulations. If the result of the re-
evaluation shows that the safety and effectiveness of the medical device on 
the market cannot be guaranteed, the medical device registrant and recorder 
shall take the initiative to apply for cancellation of the medical device 
registration certificate or cancellation of the record; the medical device 
registrant or recorder has not applied for the cancellation of the medical 
device registration certificate or cancellation In case of filing, the medical 
device registration certificate shall be cancelled or the filing shall be cancelled 
by the department responsible for drug supervision and administration. 
The drug supervision and administration department of the people's 
government at or above the provincial level shall conduct re-evaluation of 
medical devices that have been marketed based on the monitoring and 
evaluation of medical device adverse events. If the result of the re-evaluation 
shows that the safety and effectiveness of the medical device on the market 
cannot be guaranteed, the medical device registration certificate shall be 
cancelled, or the filing shall be cancelled. 
The department responsible for drug supervision and administration shall 
promptly announce the cancellation of the medical device registration certificate 
and the cancellation of the record to the public. Medical devices whose 
registration certificates for medical devices have been cancelled or whose 
filings have been cancelled shall not continue to be produced, imported, 
operated, or used. 
Article 67 If the medical device registrant or filing person discovers that 
the medical device produced does not meet the mandatory standards, the 
technical requirements of the registered or filed product, or has other defects, 
it shall immediately stop production and notify the relevant operating 

enterprise and user unit Stop business and use with consumers, recall 
medical devices that have been on the market, take measures such as 
remediation and destruction, record relevant conditions, release relevant 
information, and report the recall and handling of medical devices to the 
department responsible for drug supervision and management and the health 
authority report. 
If the entrusted production or operation enterprise of medical devices 
discovers that the production or operation of the medical device is in the 
circumstances specified in the preceding paragraph, it shall immediately stop 
the production and operation, notify the medical device registrant and filing 
person, and record the suspension of production, operation and notification. 
The medical device registrant and recorder believe that the medical device 
that needs to be recalled in accordance with the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph shall be recalled immediately. 
If the medical device registrant, recorder, entrusted manufacturing 
enterprise, or operating enterprise fails to implement the recall or stop 
production or operation in accordance with the provisions of this article, the 
department responsible for drug supervision and administration may order the 
recall or stop production or operation. 
 
Chapter VI Supervision 
Article 68 The state establishes a professional and specialized 
inspectors system to strengthen the supervision and inspection of medical 
devices. 
Article 69 The department responsible for drug supervision and 
administration shall strengthen the supervision and inspection of the quality of 
medical devices in the development, production, business activities and use 
of medical devices, and conduct key supervision and inspection on the 
following matters: 
(1) Whether the production is organized in accordance with the registered 
or filed technical requirements of the product, 
(2) Whether the quality management system maintains effective 
operation, 
(3) Whether the production and operation conditions continue to meet the 
legal requirements. 
When necessary, the department responsible for drug supervision and 
administration may conduct extended inspections of other relevant units and 

individuals that provide products or services for medical device development, 
production, operation, and use. 
Article 70 The department in charge of drug supervision and 
administration shall have the following powers in supervision and inspection: 
(1) Entering the site to conduct inspections and take samples, 
(2) Consult, copy, seal up, and detain relevant contracts, bills, account 
books and other relevant materials, 
(3) Sealing up and seizing medical devices that do not meet statutory 
requirements, illegally used spare parts, raw materials, and tools and 
equipment used for illegally producing and operating medical devices, 
(4) Seal up places that violate the provisions of these regulations and 
engage in the production and operation of medical devices. 
In conducting supervision and inspection, law enforcement certificates 
shall be presented to keep the business secrets of the entity under inspection. 
Relevant units and individuals shall cooperate in supervision and 
inspection, provide relevant documents and materials, and shall not conceal, 
refuse, or obstruct. 
Article 71 The competent health department shall strengthen supervision 
and inspection of the use of medical devices by medical institutions. When 
conducting supervision and inspection, you can enter a medical institution to 
consult and copy relevant files, records, and other relevant materials. 
Article 72 Where there are hidden product quality and safety hazards in 
the production and operation of medical devices, and if no timely measures 
are taken to eliminate them, the department responsible for drug supervision 
and administration may take measures such as warnings, responsibility 
interviews, and orders for rectification within a time limit. 
For medical devices that cause harm to the human body or have 
evidence to prove that they may harm human health, the department 
responsible for drug supervision and administration may take emergency 
control measures that order the suspension of production, import, operation, 
and use, and issue safety warning information. 
Article 73 The department responsible for drug supervision and 
management shall strengthen the random inspection and inspection of 
medical devices produced, operated, and used by medical device registrants, 

record holders, production and operation enterprises and users. Random 
inspections shall not charge inspection fees and any other expenses, and the 
required expenses shall be included in the budget of the government at the 
same level. The drug supervision and administration department of the 
people's government at or above the provincial level shall issue a medical 
device quality announcement in a timely manner based on the conclusions of 
random inspections. 
The competent health department shall supervise and evaluate the use of 
large-scale medical equipment; if it discovers illegal use and excessive 
inspection and over-treatment related to large-scale medical equipment, it 
shall immediately correct it and deal with it in accordance with the law. 
Article 74 If the department responsible for drug supervision and 
management fails to discover the systemic risks of medical device safety in 
time, and fails to eliminate the hidden dangers of medical device safety in the 
supervision and management area in time, the people's government at the 
same level or the department responsible for drug supervision and 
management of the people's government at a higher level shall deal with The 
main person in charge conducts an interview. 
Where the local people's government fails to perform its medical device 
safety responsibilities and fails to eliminate major regional medical device 
safety hazards in a timely manner, the higher-level people's government or 
the drug supervision and management department of the higher-level people's 
government shall hold an interview with its main person in charge. 
The department and local people's government interviewed shall take 
immediate measures to rectify and reform the supervision and management 
of medical devices. 
Article 75 The qualification certification of medical device inspection 
institutions shall be managed in a unified manner in accordance with relevant 
national regulations. Only the inspection agency recognized by the 
certification and accreditation supervision and administration department of 
the State Council in conjunction with the drug supervision and administration 
department of the State Council can carry out inspections on medical devices. 
If the department in charge of drug supervision and administration needs 
to inspect medical devices in law enforcement work, it shall entrust a qualified 
medical device inspection agency to conduct the inspection and pay the 
relevant expenses. 
If the parties have objections to the inspection conclusions, they may 
submit an application for re-inspection to the department that conducts 

sampling inspections or the higher-level department responsible for drug 
supervision and administration within 7 working days from the date of receipt 
of the inspection conclusion, and the department that accepts the re-
inspection application The re-inspection agency is randomly selected in the 
list of re-inspection agencies to conduct re-inspection. The medical device 
inspection agency undertaking the re-inspection work shall make a re-
inspection conclusion within the time specified by the drug regulatory authority 
under the State Council. The re-inspection conclusion is the final inspection 
conclusion. The re-inspection institution and the initial inspection institution 
shall not be the same institution; if there is only one qualified inspection 
institution for the relevant inspection items, the undertaking department or 
personnel shall be changed during the re-inspection. The list of re-inspection 
agencies shall be announced by the drug regulatory authority under the State 
Council. 
Article 76 For medical devices that may contain harmful substances or 
change the design, raw materials and production processes of medical 
devices without authorization and have hidden safety hazards, medical 
devices cannot be inspected in accordance with the inspection items and 
inspection methods specified in the national standards and industry standards 
for medical devices. The inspection agency may use the supplementary 
inspection items and inspection methods approved by the drug regulatory 
department of the State Council to conduct inspections; the inspection 
conclusions drawn from the supplementary inspection items and inspection 
methods can be used as the basis for the quality of medical devices 
recognized by the drug regulatory authority. 
Article 77 The market supervision and management department shall 
supervise and inspect medical device advertisements in accordance with the 
relevant advertising management laws and administrative regulations and 
investigate and deal with illegal acts. 
Article 78: The department in charge of drug supervision and 
administration shall, through the online government service platform of the 
drug supervision and administration department of the State Council, promptly 
publish the daily supervision and management information of medical device 
licensing, filing, random inspection, investigation and punishment of illegal 
activities in accordance with the law. However, the commercial secrets of the 
parties shall not be disclosed. 
The department in charge of drug supervision and management 
establishes the credit files of medical device registrants, recorders, production 
and operation enterprises, and users, increases the frequency of supervision 
and inspection for those with bad credit records, and strengthens punishment 
for untrustworthiness in accordance with the law. 

Article 79 The department in charge of drug supervision and 
administration and other departments shall publish the contact information of 
the unit, and accept consultation, complaint, and report. The department in 
charge of drug supervision and management and other departments shall 
respond in time when receiving inquiries related to the supervision and 
management of medical devices; upon receiving complaints and reports, they 
shall verify, handle, and respond in a timely manner. The situation of 
consultation, complaint, report and its response, verification and handling 
shall be recorded and kept. 
If a report on medical device development, production, operation, and use 
is true after investigation, the department in charge of drug supervision and 
administration and other departments shall reward the reporter. Relevant 
departments shall keep the reporter confidential. 
 
Article 80 The drug regulatory department of the State Council formulates, 
adjusts, and revises the catalogs and regulations related to the supervision and 
management of medical devices, and shall solicit opinions publicly; take the 
form of hearings and demonstration meetings to listen to experts and medical 
device registrants, The opinions of the filing person, production and operation 
enterprises, user units, consumers, industry associations and related 
organizations. 
 
 
Chapter VII Legal Liability 
Article 81 In any of the following circumstances, the department 
responsible for drug supervision and administration shall confiscate illegal 
income, illegal production and operation of medical devices, and tools, 
equipment, raw materials and other items used in illegal production and 
operation; illegal production and operation of medical devices If the value of 
the goods is less than 10,000 yuan, a fine of more than 50,000 yuan and less 
than 150,000 yuan shall be imposed; if the value of the goods is more than 
10,000 yuan, a fine of 15 times to 30 times the value of the goods shall be 
imposed; if the circumstances are serious, production and business shall be 
suspended , Within 10 years, the relevant responsible persons and units will 
not accept medical device license applications, and the legal representatives, 
main responsible persons, directly responsible persons in charge and other 
responsible personnel of the illegal units will be confiscated from the unit’s 
income during the occurrence of the illegal acts. , And impose a fine of more 
than 30% of income but not more than 3 times, and prohibit them from 
engaging in medical device production and operation activities for life: 
(1) Production and operation of Class II and Class III medical devices that 
have not obtained the medical device registration certificate, 

(2) Have the production of Class II and Class III medical devices without 
permission, 
(3) Have Class III medical device business activities without permission. 
In the case of the first item of the preceding paragraph and the 
circumstances are serious, the original license-issuing department shall revoke 
the medical device production license or medical device business license. 
Article 82 Anyone who installs and uses large dimension medical 
equipment without permission shall be ordered to stop the use by the health 
authority of the people’s government at or above the county level, given a 
warning, and confiscated the illegal income; if the illegal income is less than 
10,000 yuan, a penalty of more than 50,000 yuan shall be imposed. A fine of 
less than 100,000 yuan; if the illegal income is more than 10,000 yuan, a fine 
of 10 times to 30 times the illegal income shall be imposed; if the 
circumstances are serious, applications for large dimension medical 
equipment configuration licenses submitted by the relevant responsible 
persons and units will not be accepted within 5 years. The legal 
representative, the main person in charge, the directly responsible person in 
charge and other responsible persons of the unit shall confiscate the income 
received from the unit during the period of the illegal act, and impose a fine of 
30% or more but less than 3 times the income, and shall be punished 
according to law. 
Article 83 Where false information is provided or other deceptive 
methods are used when applying for an administrative license for medical 
devices, the administrative license shall not be granted. If the administrative 
license has been obtained, the administrative license shall be revoked by the 
department that made the administrative license decision, and the illegal 
income and illegal production shall be confiscated. For medical devices used 
in business, applications for medical device licenses submitted by relevant 
responsible persons and units will not be accepted within 10 years; medical 
devices used in illegal production and operation with a value of less than 
10,000 yuan shall be fined between 50,000 yuan and 150,000 yuan; If the 
value of the goods is more than 10,000 yuan, a fine of 15 times to 30 times 
the value of the goods shall be imposed; if the circumstances are serious, the 
production and business shall be suspended, and the legal representative, the 
main person in charge, the directly responsible person in charge and other 
responsibilities of the illegal unit Personnel, confiscate the income received 
from the unit during the period of the illegal act, and impose a fine of more 
than 30% of the income but not more than 3 times, and prohibit them from 
engaging in the production and operation of medical devices for life. 

Anyone who forges, alters, sells, rents, or lends relevant medical device 
licenses shall be confiscated or revoked by the original license-issuing 
department, and the illegal gains shall be confiscated; if the illegal gains are 
less than 10,000 yuan, a fine of 50,000 yuan up to 100,000 yuan shall be 
imposed. ; If the illegal income is more than 10,000 yuan, a fine of 10 times to 
20 times of the illegal income shall be imposed; if a violation of public security 
management is constituted, the public security organ shall impose public 
security management penalties in accordance with the law. 
Article 84 In any of the following circumstances, the department 
responsible for drug supervision and administration shall announce the name 
of the unit and product to the public and order it to make corrections within a 
time limit; if the correction is not made within the time limit, the illegal income 
and medical devices produced and operated illegally shall be confiscated; 
illegal production and operation If the value of the medical device is less than 
10,000 yuan, a fine of 10,000 yuan or more and less than 50,000 yuan shall 
be imposed; if the value of the medical device is more than 10,000 yuan, a 
fine of 5 times or more and 20 times the value of the value shall be imposed; if 
the circumstances are serious, The legal representative, main person in 
charge, directly responsible person in charge and other responsible personnel 
of the illegal unit shall confiscate the income from the unit during the period of 
the illegal act, and impose a fine of more than 30% and less than 2 times of 
the income. Prohibited within 5 years It is engaged in the production and 
operation of medical devices: 
(1) Production and operation of Class I medical devices that have not 
been filed, 
(2) Engaging in the production of Class I medical devices without filing, 
(3) The operation of Class II medical devices shall be filed but not filed, 
(4) The documents that have been filed do not meet the requirements. 
Article 85  Where false information is provided during filing, the 
department responsible for drug supervision and management shall announce 
the name of the filing unit and product to the public, and confiscate illegal 
income and illegally produced and operated medical devices; the value of 
illegally produced and operated medical devices is less than 1 If the value of 
the goods is more than 10,000 yuan, a fine of more than 20,000 yuan and 
less than 50,000 yuan shall be imposed; if the value of the goods is more than 
10,000 yuan, a fine of more than 5 times and less than 20 times the value of 
the goods shall be imposed; if the circumstances are serious, production and 
business shall be suspended; The legal representative, the main person in 
charge, the directly responsible person in charge and other responsible 

persons shall confiscate the income received from the unit during the period 
of the illegal act, and shall impose a fine of more than 30% of the income but 
not more than 3 times of the income, and prohibit them from engaging in 
medical equipment for 10 years Production and business activities. 
Article 86 In any of the following circumstances, the department 
responsible for drug supervision and administration shall order corrections 
and confiscate the medical devices used in illegal production and operation; if 
the value of the medical devices used in illegal production and operation is 
less than 10,000 yuan, they shall be punished 2 A fine of not less than 10,000 
yuan but not more than 50,000 yuan; if the value of the goods is more than 
10,000 yuan, a fine of more than 5 times and less than 20 times the value of 
the goods shall be imposed; if the circumstances are serious, the production 
and business shall be suspended until the medical device registration 
certificate is revoked by the original issuing department , Medical device 
production license, medical device business license, the legal representative, 
main person in charge, directly responsible person in charge and other 
responsible personnel of the illegal unit shall confiscate the income obtained 
from the unit during the period of the illegal act and the premises Receive a 
fine of more than 30% of income but less than 3 times, and prohibit them from 
engaging in medical device production and operation activities for 10 years: 
(1) The production, operation, and use of medical devices that do not 
meet mandatory standards or do not meet the technical requirements of 
registered or filed products, 
(2) Failing to organize production in accordance with the technical 
requirements of the registered or filed product, or failing to establish a quality 
management system and maintain effective operation in accordance with the 
provisions of these Regulations, which affects the safety and effectiveness of 
the product; 
(3) Operating or using medical devices that do not have conformity 
certification documents, expired, invalidated, or eliminated, or use medical 
devices that have not been registered according to law, 
(4) The department in charge of drug supervision and administration still 
refuses to recall after it is ordered by the department in charge of drug 
supervision and administration, or the production, import, and operation of 
medical devices are still refused to stop after the department in charge of drug 
supervision and administration orders to stop or suspend production, import, 
or operation; 

(5) Entrusting an enterprise that does not meet the requirements of these 
regulations to produce medical devices, or failing to manage the production 
activities of the entrusted manufacturing company, 
(6) Import expired, out of date, and obsoleted medical devices that have 
been used. 
Article 87 Medical device business enterprises and user units have 
fulfilled the obligations of purchase inspection and other requirements 
stipulated in these Regulations, and have sufficient evidence to prove that 
they do not know the medical devices they operate and use are in the first 
paragraph of Article 81 of the Regulations. If the medical devices under the 
conditions specified in paragraph 1 of Article 84, paragraph 1 of Article 86, 
and paragraph 3 of Article 86 can truthfully state the source of their 
purchases, the medical devices operated and used by them that do not meet 
the statutory requirements shall be confiscated Devices can be exempted 
from administrative penalties. 
Article 88 In any of the following circumstances, the responsible 
department drug supervision and administration shall order corrections and 
impose a fine of 10,000 yuan to 50,000 yuan; if it refuses to make corrections, 
a fine of 50,000 yuan but less than 100,000 yuan shall be imposed; 
circumstances In serious cases, it shall be ordered to suspend production and 
business until the original license-issuing department revokes the medical 
device production license and medical device business license. The legal 
representative, main person in charge, directly responsible person in charge 
and other responsible persons of the illegal unit shall be confiscated During 
the period of the act, the income received from the unit, and a fine of more 
than 30% of the income received but not more than 2 times, is prohibited from 
engaging in medical device production and operation activities within 5 years: 
(1) Changes in production conditions, no longer meeting the 
requirements of the medical device quality management system, failure to 
rectify, stop production, and report in accordance with the provisions of these 
regulations, 
(2) Medical devices whose production and operation manuals and labels 
do not meet the requirements of these regulations, 
(3) Failing to transport and store medical devices in accordance with the 
instructions and labeling requirements of the medical devices, 
(4) Transfer of medical devices in use that are expired, invalid, 
eliminated, or unqualified. 

Article 89 In any of the following circumstances, the responsible 
department of drug supervision and administration and the competent health 
department shall order corrections and give warnings according to their 
respective duties; if they refuse to make corrections, a fine of 10,000 yuan to 
100,000 yuan shall be imposed; the circumstances are serious If the company 
is involved, it shall be ordered to suspend production and business until the 
original issuing department revokes the medical device registration certificate, 
medical device production license, and medical device business license. The 
legal representative, main person in charge, directly responsible person in 
charge and other responsibilities of the illegal entity personnel shall be fined 
not less than 10,000 yuan but not more than 30,000 yuan:  
(1) Failing to submit the quality management system self-inspection 
report as required, 
(2) Purchase medical devices from suppliers who do not have legal 
qualifications, 
(3) Medical device operating enterprises and user units fail to establish 
and implement the medical device purchase inspection record system in 
accordance with the provisions of these Regulations, 
(4) Business enterprises engaged in the wholesale business of Type II 
and Type III medical devices and the retail business of Type III medical 
devices fail to establish and implement a sales record system in accordance 
with the provisions of these Regulations, 
(5) Medical device registrants, record holders, manufacturing and 
operating enterprises, and user units fail to carry out medical device adverse 
event monitoring in accordance with the provisions of these Regulations, fail 
to report adverse events in accordance with requirements, or monitor 
technical institutions for medical device adverse events and are responsible 
for drug supervision and management Failing to cooperate in the investigation 
of adverse events carried out by the relevant departments and health 
authorities; 
(6) Medical device registrants and recorders fail to formulate post-
marketing research and risk control plans in accordance with regulations and 
ensure their effective implementation, 
(7) The medical device registrant and recorder fail to establish and 
implement a product traceability system in accordance with the regulations, 
(8) Medical device registrants, recorders, and operating companies 
engaged in online sales of medical devices fail to notify the department 

responsible for drug supervision and administration in accordance with 
regulations, 
(9) For medical devices that require regular inspection, inspection, 
calibration, maintenance, and maintenance, the medical device user fails to 
perform inspection, inspection, calibration, maintenance, and maintenance in 
accordance with the requirements of the product manual and records to 
analyze and evaluate in time to ensure medical treatment the equipment is in 
good condition; 
(10) The medical device user fails to properly keep the original materials 
of Class III medical device purchased. 
Article 90 In any of the following circumstances, the competent health 
department of the people’s government at or above the county level shall 
order correction and give a warning; if it refuses to make corrections, a fine of 
50,000 yuan but less than 100,000 yuan shall be imposed; if the 
circumstances are serious, 100,000 yuan shall be imposed For fines above 
300,000 yuan or less, the relevant medical device use activities shall be 
suspended until the original license issuing department revokes the practice 
license, and the relevant responsible personnel shall be ordered to suspend 
practice activities for more than 6 months and less than 1 year until the 
original license issuing department revokes the relevant activities. Personnel 
practice certificate, the legal representative, main responsible person, directly 
responsible person in charge and other responsible personnel of the illegal 
unit shall confiscate the income received from the unit during the period of the 
illegal act, and impose a fine of 30% or more and less than 3 times the 
income. , To be punished according to law: 
(1) For re-used medical devices, the medical device user unit fails to deal 
with it in accordance with the regulations on disinfection and management, 
(2) The medical device user unit reuses single-use medical devices, or 
fails to destroy used single-use medical devices in accordance with 
regulations, 
(3) The medical device user fails to record the information of large-scale 
medical devices and implantable and interventional medical devices in 
relevant records such as medical records in accordance with regulations, 
(4) The medical device user unit discovers that the medical device used 
has a potential safety hazard and fails to immediately stop using it, notify it for 
maintenance, or continue to use the medical device that fails to meet the 
safety standards after the maintenance; 

(5) Medical device users use large-scale medical equipment in violation 
of regulations and cannot guarantee medical quality and safety. 
Article 91 Imported medical devices in violation of relevant laws and 
administrative regulations on import and export commodity inspection shall be 
dealt with by the entry-exit inspection and quarantine agency in accordance 
with the law. 
Article 92 Operators of e-commerce platforms that provide services for 
medical device online transactions violate the provisions of these Regulations 
by failing to perform real-name registration of networked medical device 
operators, review licensing, registration, and filing conditions, stop and report 
illegal acts, and stop Those who provide management obligations such as 
online trading platform services shall be punished by the department 
responsible for drug supervision and management in accordance with the 
provisions of the "E-commerce Law of the People's Republic of China". 
Article 93 If a clinical trial is carried out without the filing of a medical 
device clinical trial institution, the department in charge of drug supervision 
and administration shall order it to stop the clinical trial and make corrections; 
if it refuses to make corrections, the clinical trial data shall not be used for 
product registration, filing, and processing A fine of between RMB 50,000 and 
RMB 100,000 shall be announced to the public; if serious consequences are 
caused, it shall be forbidden to carry out clinical trials of related professional 
medical devices within 5 years, and a fine of RMB 100,000 but not more than 
RMB 300,000 shall be imposed. The legal representative, the main person in 
charge, the directly responsible person in charge and other responsible 
persons of the unit shall confiscate the income received from the unit during 
the period of the illegal act, and impose a fine of 30% or more but less than 3 
times the income, and shall be punished according to law. 
If a clinical trial sponsor has carried out a clinical trial without filing, the 
department in charge of drug supervision and management shall order the 
suspension of the clinical trial, impose a fine of 50,000 yuan up to 100,000 
yuan on the clinical trial sponsor, and make an announcement to the public; if 
serious consequences are caused, Impose a fine of 100,000 yuan up to 
300,000 yuan. The clinical trial data shall not be used for product registration 
and filing, and medical device registration applications submitted by relevant 
responsible persons and units will not be accepted within 5 years. 
If a clinical trial sponsor conducts a third-class medical device clinical trial 
with a higher risk to the human body without approval, the department in charge 
of drug supervision and management shall order the immediate termination of 
the clinical trial and impose a penalty of 100,000 yuan to 300,000 yuan on the 
clinical trial sponsor The following fines shall be announced to the public; if 

serious consequences are caused, a fine of 300,000 yuan up to 1 million yuan 
shall be imposed. The clinical trial data shall not be used for product registration, 
and the medical device clinical trial and registration applications submitted by 
relevant responsible persons and units will not be accepted within 10 years. 
The legal representative, main responsible person, directly responsible person 
in charge and other responsible persons of the illegal unit will not be accepted. , 
Confiscate the income received from the unit during the period of the illegal act, 
and impose a fine of 30% or more and less than 3 times the income. 
Article 94 If a medical device clinical trial institution conducts a medical 
device clinical trial that fails to comply with the clinical trial quality 
management specifications, the department responsible for drug supervision 
and management shall order correction or immediately stop the clinical trial, 
and impose a fine of 50,000 yuan up to 100,000 yuan; If serious 
consequences are caused, the relevant professional medical device clinical 
trials are prohibited within 5 years. The health authority shall confiscate the 
legal representative, the main person in charge, the directly responsible 
person in charge and other responsible persons of the illegal unit during the 
period of the illegal act. The income earned by the unit and a fine of more 
than 30% and less than three times of the income received shall be punished 
in accordance with the law. 
Article 95 If a medical device clinical trial institution issues a false report, 
the department in charge of drug supervision and administration shall impose 
a fine of 100,000 yuan up to 300,000 yuan; if there are illegal gains, the illegal 
gains shall be confiscated; the relevant professional medical treatment shall 
be prohibited within 10 years Device clinical trials; the health authority shall 
confiscate the legal representative, the main person in charge, the directly 
responsible person in charge and other responsible persons of the illegal unit, 
and confiscate the income received from the unit during the period of the 
illegal act, and more than 30% of the income obtained from the premises 
Fines below 3 times shall be punished according to law. 
Article 96 If a medical device inspection agency issues a false inspection 
report, the competent authority that granted it will revoke the inspection 
qualification, and will not accept the qualification accreditation application 
submitted by the relevant responsible person and the unit within 10 years, and 
impose a charge of 100,000 yuan or more and 300,000 yuan. The following 
fines; where there is illegal income, the illegal income shall be confiscated; the 
legal representative, the main responsible person, the directly responsible 
person in charge and other responsible personnel of the illegal unit shall 
confiscate the income obtained from the unit during the period of the illegal 
act and dispose of the income obtained A fine of more than 30% of income 
but less than 3 times shall be punished in accordance with the law; those who 

are expelled shall be prohibited from engaging in medical device inspection 
for 10 years. 
Article 97 Violation of the regulations on the management of medical 
device advertising shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the 
Advertising Law of the People’s Republic of China. 
Article 98 Where a domestic enterprise legal person designated by an 
overseas medical device registrant or filing person fails to perform relevant 
obligations in accordance with the provisions of these Regulations, the drug 
regulatory department of the people's government of the province, 
autonomous region, or municipality directly under the Central Government 
shall order correction, give a warning, and impose a 5 A fine of not less than 
10,000 yuan but not more than 100,000; if the circumstances are serious, a 
fine of 100,000 yuan but not more than 500,000 yuan shall be imposed, and 
the legal representative, main responsible person, directly responsible person 
in charge and other responsible persons are prohibited from engaging in the 
production and operation of medical devices within 5 years activity. 
If the overseas medical device registrant and recorder refuse to 
implement the administrative penalty decision made in accordance with these 
regulations, the import of medical devices shall be prohibited for 10 years. 
Article 99 If medical device research and development, production, and 
operation units and inspection institutions violate these regulations and use 
personnel who are prohibited from engaging in medical device production and 
operation activities or inspections, the department responsible for drug 
supervision and administration shall order corrections and give warnings; If it 
is corrected, it shall be ordered to suspend production and business until the 
license is revoked. 
Article 100 If the medical device technical review institution and the 
medical device adverse event monitoring technical institution fail to perform 
their duties in accordance with the provisions of these Regulations, causing 
major errors in the review and monitoring work, the department in charge of 
drug supervision and administration shall order corrections and report 
criticisms. A warning shall be given; if serious consequences are caused, the 
legal representative, the main responsible person, the directly responsible 
person in charge and other responsible persons of the illegal unit shall be 
punished in accordance with the law. 
Article 101 If the staff of the department responsible for drug supervision 
and management or other relevant departments violates the provisions of 
these Regulations, abuses their power, neglects their duties, or engages in 

malpractices for personal gain, they shall be punished in accordance with the 
law. 
Article 102 Anyone who violates the provisions of these Regulations and 
constitutes a crime shall be investigated for criminal responsibility according to 
law; those who cause personal, property or other damage shall be liable for 
compensation according to law. 
 
Chapter VIII Appendix 
 
Article 103 The meaning of the following terms in these Regulations: 
Medical devices refer to instruments, equipment, appliances, in vitro 
diagnostic reagents and calibrators, materials, and other similar or related 
items used directly or indirectly on the human body, including the required 
computer software; their utility is mainly obtained through physical methods, 
etc. It is not obtained through pharmacology, immunology, or metabolism, or 
although these methods are involved but only play a supporting role; its 
purpose is: 
(1) Diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment, or alleviation of 
diseases, 
(2) Diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, mitigation, or functional 
compensation of injury, 
(3) Inspection, substitution, adjustment or support of physiological 
structure or physiological process, 
(4) Life support or maintenance, 
(5) Pregnancy control, 
(6) Provide information for medical or diagnostic purposes by examining 
samples from the human body. 
The medical device registrant and recorder refer to the enterprise or 
research institution that has obtained the medical device registration 
certificate or handled the record of medical device. 
Medical device users refer to institutions that use medical devices to 
provide medical and other technical services to others, including medical 
institutions, family planning technical service institutions, blood stations, 

apheresis plasma stations, rehabilitation assistive device adaptation 
institutions, etc. 
Large dimension medical equipment refers to large dimension medical 
equipment with complex technology, large capital investment, high operating 
cost, large impact on medical expenses and included in catalog management. 
 
Article 104 Fees may be charged for the registration of medical device 
products. The specific charging items and standards shall be respectively 
formulated by the finance and price authorities of the State Council in 
accordance with relevant state regulations. 
Article 105 The administrative measures for medical devices developed 
by medical and health institutions in response to public health emergencies 
shall be formulated by the drug regulatory department of the State Council in 
conjunction with the competent health department of the State Council. 
The storage, allocation and supply of non-profit contraceptive medical 
devices shall abide by the administrative measures formulated by the 
competent health department of the State Council in conjunction with the drug 
regulatory department of the State Council. 
The technical guidelines for medical devices in traditional Chinese 
medicine shall be formulated by the drug regulatory department of the State 
Council in conjunction with the traditional Chinese medicine regulatory 
department of the State Council. 
 
Article 106 The supervision and management of the use of military 
medical devices shall be implemented in accordance with these Regulations 
and the relevant provisions of the military. 
 
Article 107 These regulations shall come into force on June 1, 2021.