Medical Device GMP 
Regulations 
- 의료기기 GMP 규정집 - 
 
February 2026 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Contents 
 
 
 
 
1. Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act .................................... 1 
[Enforced on October 31, 2025] [Ordinance of the Prime Minister No. 2060; October 31, 2025] 
Annexes 1–10  .......................................................................................................... 84 
 
2. Standards of Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices  178 
[Enforced on December 9, 2025] [MFDS Notice No. 2025-80; December 9, 2025; Partially Amended] 
Annexes 1–9  .......................................................................................................... 203 
Forms 1–5  .............................................................................................................. 286 
 
3. Standards of Good Manufacturing Practice for In Vitro Diagnostic 
Medical Devices  ................................................................................. 299 
[Enforced on August 12, 2025] [MFDS Notice No. 2025-51; August 12, 2025; Partially Amended] 
Annexes 1–6  .......................................................................................................... 312 
Forms 1–5  .............................................................................................................. 386 
 
4. Standards of Good Manufacturing Practice for Digital Medical 
Devices  ................................................................................................ 397 
[Enforced on April 21, 2025] [MFDS Notice No. 2025-28; April 21, 2025; Enacted] 
Annexes 1–8  .......................................................................................................... 408 
Forms 1–5  .............................................................................................................. 468 
 

 
 
 
목   차 
 
 
 
 
1. 의료기기법 시행규칙 ........................................................................ 1 
[시행 2025. 10. 31.] [총리령 제2060호, 2025. 10. 31., 타법개정] 
별표 1–10  ................................................................................................................ 84 
 
2. 의료기기 제조 및 품질관리 기준  .............................................. 178 
[시행 2025. 12. 9.] [식품의약품안전처고시 제2025-80호, 2025. 12. 9., 일부개정] 
별표 1–9  ................................................................................................................ 203 
별지 1–5  ................................................................................................................ 286 
 
3. 체외진단의료기기 제조 및 품질관리 기준  ............................... 299 
[시행 2025. 8. 12.] [식품의약품안전처고시 제2025-51호, 2025. 8. 12., 일부개정] 
별표 1–6  ................................................................................................................ 312 
별지 1–5  ................................................................................................................ 386 
 
4. 디지털의료기기 제조 및 품질관리 기준  ................................... 397 
[시행 2025. 4. 21.] [식품의약품안전처고시 제2025-28호, 2025. 4. 21., 제정] 
별표 1–8  ................................................................................................................ 408 
별지 1–5  ................................................................................................................ 468 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
1 
 
ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT 
[Enforcement Date: October 31, 2025]  
[Ordinance of the Prime Minister No. 2060; October 31, 2025] 
Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (Medical Device Policy Division) 
Article 1 (Purpose) The purpose of this Rule is to prescribe the matters mandated by the Medical 
Devices Act and the Enforcement Decree of that Act and matters necessary for the enforcement of 
said Act and Decree. 
 
Article 2 (Standards for Classification and Designation of Classes) The standards and 
procedures for the classification and designation of the class of each medical device under Article 3 
(2) of the Medical Devices Act (hereinafter the “Act”) shall be as specified in Annex 1. 
 
Article 3 (Procedures for Application for Manufacturing Business Approval) (1) A person who 
intends to obtain manufacturing business approval for medical devices under the text of Article 6 (1) 
of the Act shall submit an application in Form 1 (including an application in electronic form) to the 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety who has jurisdiction over the 
location of a manufacturing site, along with the following documents (including electronic 
documents). In such cases, where there exist at least two manufacturing sites in different locations, 
such person may submit the application to the Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and 
Drug Safety with jurisdiction over either of such locations. <amended on Jan. 16, 2024; Apr. 01, 
2025> 
1. 
A medical certificate for which 6 months have not elapsed since the issuance date and 
which is issued by a medical doctor evidencing that he or she does not fall under the text 
of Article 6 (1) 1 of the Act or by a medical specialist evidencing that he or she falls 
under the proviso of that subparagraph (a corporation shall not submit such medical 
certificate); 
2. 
A medical certificate for which 6 months have not elapsed since the issuance date and 
which is issued by a medical doctor evidencing that he or she does not fall under Article 6 
(1) 3 of the Act (a corporation shall not submit such medical certificate); 
3. 
Documents concerning the quality manager (hereinafter referred to as the “quality manager”), 
whose qualifications shall be verified pursuant to Article 6 (7) of the Act, as follows: 
(a)  Documents verifying the qualifications under Article 11 (2). Provided, however, that 
submission of such documents shall be exempted if the qualification of the quality 
manager has previously been verified through the integrated medical device 
information system pursuant to Article 31-3 (1) of the Act; 
(b)  Documents verifying employment status, such as a certificate of employment. 
(2) Upon receipt of an application under Paragraph (1), the Commissioner of the Regional Office 
of Food and Drug Safety shall verify an applicant’s corporation registration certificate (limited 
to a corporation) through administrative data matching under Article 36 (1) of the Electronic 
Government Act. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
2 
 
(3) When an application for approval under Paragraph (1) meets the standards, the Commissioner 
of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety shall issue the license in Form 2 to the 
applicant and state the following matters in the manufacturing business license register: 
<Amended on Oct. 22, 2019> 
1. 
Approval number and approval date; 
2. 
The name and resident registration number of the manufacturer (in case of a 
corporation, the name and resident registration number of its representative); 
3. 
The name and location of the manufacturing site; 
4. 
The name, resident registration number, and classification of qualifications of the quality 
manager. 
 
Article 4 (Medical Devices Subject to Manufacturing Approval, Manufacturing Certification, 
or Manufacturing Notification) (1) Medical devices subject to manufacturing certification or 
manufacturing notification by item category under Article 6 (2) 1 of the Act shall be classified as 
follows: 
1. 
Manufacturing certification by item category: Medical devices determined and publicly 
notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, among Class II medical devices, the 
class of which is designated following Article 2 (hereinafter “class”); 
2. 
Manufacturing notification by item category: Medical devices determined and publicly 
notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, among Class I medical devices. 
(2) Medical devices subject to manufacturing approval, manufacturing certification, or 
manufacturing notification by item under Article 6 (2) 2 of the Act shall be classified as 
follows: <amended on Mar. 8, 2024; Aug. 7, 2024> 
1. 
Manufacturing approval by item: The following medical devices: 
(a) Class III and Class IV medical devices; 
(b) Medical devices excluding those under Paragraph (1) 1, Item (c) of this 
Subparagraph, and Subparagraph 2 of this Paragraph, among Class II medical 
devices; 
(c) Medical devices that are essentially different from those already approved, certified, 
or notified in terms of structure, mode of action, performance, intended uses, 
utilization methods, etc. among Class II medical devices (medical devices for export 
shall be excluded); 
2. 
Manufacturing certification by item: Medical devices determined and publicly notified by 
the Minister of Food and Drug Safety excluding those under Subparagraph 1 of Paragraph 
(1), among Class II medical devices; 
3. 
Manufacturing notification by item: Medical devices excluding those under Subparagraph 
2 of Paragraph (1), among Class I medical devices. 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
3 
 
Article 5 (Procedures for Manufacturing Approval) (1) A person who intends to obtain approval 
for medical device manufacturing under Article 6 (2) of the Act shall submit an application in Form 
3 (including an application in electronic form) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, along with 
the following documents (including electronic documents): 
1. 
Documents evidencing that he or she secures facilities and manufacturing and quality 
management systems under Article 6 (4) of the Act; 
2. 
Technical documents, clinical investigation data, etc. (hereinafter “technical documents, 
etc.”) or a notice of the review result of technical documents, etc. under Article 9 (4) for 
which 2 years have not elapsed since the issuance date. Provided, that in cases falling 
under the proviso of Article 9 (1), a notice of the review result of technical documents, etc. 
shall be submitted; 
3.  A copy of a concluded contract for entrusting manufacturing processes or testing for 
quality management. 
(2) When a product of which an application for a manufacturing approval is filed under Paragraph 
(1) is deemed to meet the standards, the Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall issue the 
applicant with a manufacturing license in Form 4 and enter the following matters in the 
manufacturing approval register: 
1. 
Approval number and approval date 
2. 
The names (the product name, item name, and model name). 
(3) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall determine and publicly notify the guidelines for 
preparing the supporting documents required for the application for manufacturing business 
approval of medical devices under Article 3 (including conditional manufacturing business 
approval and approval for change thereof) and documents required for the application for 
manufacturing approval under Paragraph (1) (including conditional manufacturing approval 
and approval for change thereof), requirements for each document, the scope of exemption, 
and other details. 
(4) If, while receiving an application for a manufacturing approval under Paragraph (1), the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety receives an application for a new health technology 
assessment under Article 3-2 (2) of the New Health Technology Assessment Rules, or an 
application, etc. for verification of eligibility for health care benefit or non-benefit, etc. under 
Article 9-2 (2) of the Rules on Standards for Health Care Benefits Covered by National 
Health Insurance, or a written objection under Article 9-2 (4) of the Rules on Standards for 
Health Care Benefits Covered by National Health Insurance, he or she shall, without delay, 
forward the relevant application, etc. to the Minister of Health and Welfare and the 
President of the Health Insurance Review and Assessment Service. In such cases, the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety may mutually share data related to the relevant application for a 
manufacturing approval with the Minister of Health and Welfare or the President of the Health 
Insurance Review and Assessment Service; present opinions on the new health technology 
assessment and whether the manufacturing falls under medical care benefit items or non-
benefit items; and refer to the data forwarded under Paragraph (5) when granting 
manufacturing approval. <Newly Inserted on Jul. 29, 2016; Apr. 13, 2020> 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
4 
 
(5) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety receives the results of the new health technology 
assessment, the results of the verification of whether the manufacturing falls under the health 
care benefit items or non-benefit items by the Minister of Health and Welfare and the President 
of the Health Insurance Review and Assessment Service following Article 4 (2) of the New 
Health Technology Assessment Rules or the main text of Article 9-2 (3) and Paragraph (4) 
thereof of the Rules on Standards for Health Care Benefits Covered by National Health 
Insurance, he or she shall immediately notify the relevant applicant of such results, etc. 
<Newly inserted on Jul. 29, 2016> 
(6) The matters prescribed in Paragraphs (4) and (5) shall also apply to the cases of conditional 
manufacturing approval granted under Article 7 (1) of the Act or approval for change granted 
under Article 12 (1) of the Act. <Newly Inserted on Jul. 29, 2016> 
(7) Except as provided in Paragraphs (4) through (6), details necessary for data and opinion 
provision, etc. among institutions shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety. <Newly Inserted on Jul. 29, 2016> 
 
Article 6 (Procedures for Manufacturing Certification) (1) A person who intends to obtain 
manufacturing certification of medical devices under Article 6 (2) of the Act shall submit an 
application in Form 5 (including an application in electronic form) to the head of the National 
Institute of Medical Device Safety Information established under Article 42 of the Act (hereinafter 
the “NIDS”) entrusted with the affairs concerning certification under Article 44 (2) of the Act, 
along with the documents referred to in the subparagraphs of Article 5 (1) (including electronic 
documents). <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018> 
(2)  When medical devices of which an application for manufacturing is filed under Paragraph (1) 
are deemed to meet the standards, the head of the NIDS shall issue the manufacturing 
certificate in Form 6 to the applicant and shall enter the following matters in the 
manufacturing certification register: <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018> 
1. 
Certification number and certification date; 
2. 
The names (the product name, item name, and model name); 
(3)  The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall determine and publicly notify the guidelines for 
preparing the supporting documents required for the application for manufacturing certification 
under Paragraph (1) (including conditional manufacturing certification and certification of 
change thereof), requirements for each document, the scope of exemption, and other details. 
 
Article 7 (Procedures for Manufacturing Notification) (1) A person who intends to file a 
manufacturing notification of medical devices under Article 6 (2) of the Act shall submit the 
notification in Form 7 (including a notification in electronic form) to the head of the NIDS entrusted 
with the affairs concerning notification under Article 44 (2) of the Act, along with the documents 
listed in Article 5 (1) 3. <Amended on Jun 14, 2018> 
(2)  When the head of the NIDS accepts a manufacturing notification filed pursuant to paragraph 
(1), he or she shall issue to the applicant a Certificate of Manufacturing Notification prescribed 
in Form 7-2, and shall enter the following matters in the Manufacturing Notification Register: 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
5 
 
<Amended on Jun. 14, 2018; Aug. 7, 2024> 
1. 
Notification number and notification date; 
2. 
The names (the product name, item name, and model name). 
(3)  The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall determine and publicly notify the guidelines for 
preparing supporting documents required to file a manufacturing notification under Paragraph 
(1) (including a conditional manufacturing notification and notification of change thereof), 
requirements for each document, the scope of exemption, and other details. 
 
Article 8 (Standards for Facilities and Manufacturing and Quality Management System) (1) 
Standards for facilities and manufacturing and quality management systems to be secured by a 
person who intends to obtain a manufacturing business approval, manufacturing approval, or 
manufacturing certification or file a manufacturing notification under the main text of Article 6 (4) 
of the Act shall be as specified in Annex 2. 
(2)  “Cases prescribed by Ordinance of the Prime Minister, such as those of entrusting testing for 
quality management or manufacturing processes” in the proviso of Article 6 (4) of the Act 
refers to cases where a person who intends to obtain a manufacturing business approval, 
manufacturing approval, or manufacturing certification or file a manufacturing notification 
entrusts manufacturing processes or quality management testing to a medical device testing 
and inspection institution under Article 6 (2) 4 of the Act on Testing and Inspection in the Food 
and Drug Industry (hereinafter “medical device testing and inspection institution”), an 
institution conducting non-clinical studies under Article 10-2 (1) of the Act (hereinafter 
“institution conducting non-clinical studies”), or a manufacturer whose compliance is certified 
under subparagraph 2 (f) of Annex 2. In such cases, the person who intends to obtain 
manufacturing business approval, manufacturing approval, or manufacturing certification or 
file a manufacturing notification may not secure the facilities of a manufacturing site specified 
in Subparagraph 1 (a) of Annex 2 according to the following classifications: <Amended on 
May 1, 2017> 
1. 
When manufacturing processes are entrusted: Manufacturing facilities and instruments 
related to the entrusted processes; 
2. 
When quality management testing is entrusted to a medical device testing and inspection 
institution, an institution conducting non-clinical studies, or a manufacturer whose 
compliance is certified under Subparagraph 2 (f) of Annex 2: Laboratories for quality 
management, and facilities and instruments related to testing. 
 
Article 9 (Review of Technical Documents) (1) A person who intends to obtain manufacturing 
approval or manufacturing certification may undergo a review in advance by the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety regarding the compliance of technical documents, etc., which shall be submitted 
under Article 6 (5) of the Act. Provided, that in the cases of the medical devices that are essentially 
equivalent to those already approved, certified, or notified in terms of structure, mode of action, 
performance, intended uses, utilization methods, etc. and fall under the items determined by the 
Minister of Food and Drug and Safety, the technical documents, etc. shall be reviewed by a 
technical documentation review body under Article 6-4 (1) of the Act (hereinafter “technical 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
6 
 
documentation review body”). <Amended on May 1, 2017> 
(2) For medical devices (in vitro diagnostic medical devices shall be excluded), a person who 
intends to have technical documents, etc. reviewed under Paragraph (1) shall submit a written 
request for review in Form 8 (including a written request for review in electronic form) to the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the head of an technical documentation review body, 
along with the following data (including data in electronic form): Provided, That in the cases 
of the medical devices that are essentially equivalent to those already approved in terms of 
structure, mode of action, performance, intended uses, utilization methods, etc. except for 
the medical devices determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety for which submission of data regarding clinical investigations is deemed necessary, 
the data referred to in Subparagraphs 5 through 7 may not be submitted. <Amended Jun. 12, 
2019; Dec 31, 2020; Jun. 24, 2021; Jan. 16, 2024> 
1. 
Data regarding comparison between the medical devices and products already approved; 
2. 
Data regarding intended uses; 
3. 
Data regarding modes of action; 
4. 
The following data regarding test specifications, grounds for establishing such 
specifications, and actual measured values for the verification of the performance and 
safety of products: Provided, That when neither domestic nor international test 
specifications exist, data regarding test specifications established by the person who 
intends to have technical documents, etc. reviewed to verify the performance and safety 
of products, grounds for establishing such specifications, and actual measured values: 
(a) Data regarding electrical and mechanical safety; 
(b) Data regarding biological safety; 
(c) Data regarding radiation safety; 
(d) Data regarding safety of electromagnetic waves; 
(e) Data regarding performance; 
(f) Data regarding physical and chemical properties; 
(g) Data regarding stability; 
5. 
Data regarding origins, discovery, and reasons for development; 
6. 
Data regarding clinical investigations; 
7. 
Data regarding the current status of use, etc. in foreign countries. 
(3) A person who intends to have technical documents, etc. reviewed regarding in vitro diagnostic 
medical devices pursuant to Paragraph (1) shall submit a written request for review in Form 8 
(including a written request for review in electronic form) to the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety or the head of an institution reviewing technical documents, along with the following 
data (including data in electronic form): <Amended on Jan. 4, 2017; Jun. 24, 2021; Jan. 16, 
2024> 
1. 
Data regarding reasons for development, measurement principles and methods, and the 
current status of domestic and international use; 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
7 
 
2. 
Data regarding raw materials and manufacturing methods; 
3. 
Data regarding intended uses; 
4. 
Data regarding storage methods and the period of use or expiration date; 
5. 
The following data to verify the performance of the products: 
(a)  Data regarding analytical performance tests; 
(b) Data regarding clinical performance tests; 
(c) Data regarding quality management tests; 
(d) Data regarding reference materials, specimen storage, etc. 
6. 
Data regarding the safety of the handlers of in vitro diagnostic medical devices; 
7. 
Data regarding the comparison between the medical devices and products already 
approved or certified. 
(4) Notwithstanding paragraphs (2) and (3), where a person who has undergone a preliminary 
review of manufacturing approval or notification pursuant to Article 11 of the Act submits a 
preliminary review result notice pursuant to Article 25 (3), such person may omit the 
submission of the data among the items under each subparagraph of paragraph (2) or paragraph 
(3) for which a determination of conformity has been made as a result of the preliminary 
review. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 16, 2024> 
(5) Upon receipt of a request for review under Paragraphs (2) and (3), the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety or the head of a technical documentation review body shall review the relevant 
technical documents, etc. and notify the applicant of the results as prepared in Form 9. 
<Amended on Jan. 16, 2024> 
(6) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall determine and publicly notify the guidelines for 
preparing the supporting documents necessary to review technical documents, etc.; 
requirements for each supporting document and procedures for and scope of exemption thereof; 
scope of, standards and procedures for review; management standards for clinical 
performance tests; and other details. <Amended on Jan. 4, 2017; Jan. 16, 2024> 
 
Article 10 (Exemption from Manufacturing Business Approval for Medical Devices) The 
following medical devices may be manufactured without manufacturing business approval under 
Article 6 (1) of the Act or without manufacturing approval, manufacturing certification, or 
manufacturing notification under Paragraph (2) of that Article: <Amended on Jun. 15, 2016; Jun. 
14, 2018; Dec. 31, 2018> 
1. 
A medical device subject to clinical investigations for which approval of a clinical 
investigation plan is granted under the main text of Article 10 (1) of the Act; 
2. 
A separate medical device required for clinical investigations for which approval of a 
clinical investigation plan may not be granted under the proviso of Article 10 (1) of the 
Act; 
3. 
A separate medical device required for clinical investigations regarding drugs, etc. for 
which approval of a clinical investigation plan shall be granted under Article 34 of the 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
8 
 
Pharmaceutical Affairs Act; 
4. 
A medical device manufactured to obtain manufacturing approval or manufacturing 
certification for medical devices or file a manufacturing notification for medical devices; 
5. 
A medical device used for research purposes, such as product development; 
6. 
A medical device determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety, such as a medical device for self-use or for relief operations, etc.; 
7. 
Deleted. <Dec. 31, 2018> 
8. 
A medical device determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety which is used in clinical laboratories and is deemed suitable by the Minister based 
on the evaluations of quality management systems, inspection performance, competence, 
etc. (referring to places where the diagnosis, inspection, etc. of diseases are conducted; 
hereinafter the same shall apply). 
 
Article 11 (Qualifications for Quality Managers) (1) A person who intends to obtain 
manufacturing business approval under Article 6 (1) of the Act shall assign at least one quality 
manager to each manufacturing site. 
(2)  The affairs of a quality manager may be performed by a person with any of the following 
qualifications: <Amended on Jun. 15, 2016; Apr. 13, 2020; Dec. 19, 2022> 
1. 
A person with a license classified as follows under the Medical Service Technologists Act: 
(a) When manufacturing or importing eyeglass lenses or contact lenses: Opticians; 
(b) When manufacturing or importing materials used in dental clinics: Dental technicians 
or dental hygienists; 
(c) When manufacturing or importing radiation-generating devices: Radiological 
technologists; 
(d) Deleted. <May 1, 2020> 
(e) When manufacturing or importing medical devices required for physical therapy 
or rehabilitation training: Physical therapists. 
2. 
A person with qualifications as a biomedical engineer or quality management engineer 
under the National Technical Qualifications Act; 
 
2-2. A person with qualifications as a regulatory affairs (RA) specialist of medical devices 
accredited by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety under Article 19 (1) of the 
Framework Act On Qualifications; 
3. 
A person who has earned a bachelor’s degree (including a person deemed to have an 
educational attainment equal to or higher than such degree under statutes or regulations; 
hereinafter, in this Article, the same shall apply) from a school under the subparagraphs of 
Article 2 of the Higher Education Act (excluding a junior college under Subparagraph 4 
of that Article; hereinafter, in this Article, “university, college, etc.”) and who has 
majored in the field of natural science, engineering, or medicine under Article 2 (9) of the 
Regulations on the Establishment and Operation of Universities and Colleges (hereinafter, 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
9 
 
in this Article, “medical-device-related field”); 
4. 
A person who has earned a bachelor’s degree from a university, college, etc. in a field not 
related to medical devices and who has earned a master’s degree or higher from a 
graduate school under Article 29 of the Higher Education Act in a medical-device-related 
field; 
5. 
A person who has obtained a bachelor's degree in a field other than a medical-device-
related field at a university or equivalent institution, and who has at least one year of 
experience (including the acquisition of a degree or experience prior to the recognition of 
academic credentials) engaged in quality management duties at a medical device 
manufacturing or import company; 
6. 
A person who has graduated from a junior college as defined in subparagraph 4 of Article 
2 of the Higher Education Act (including a person deemed to have an educational 
attainment equal to or higher than such college under statutes or regulations; hereinafter, 
in this Article, the same shall apply), who majored in a medical-device-related field, and 
who has at least one year of experience (including graduation or experience prior to the 
recognition of academic credentials) engaged in quality management duties at a medical 
device manufacturing or import company; 
7. 
A person who has graduated from a junior college as defined in subparagraph 4 of Article 
2 of the Higher Education Act, who majored in a field other than a medical-device-related 
field, and who has at least three years of experience (including graduation or experience 
prior to the recognition of academic credentials) engaged in quality management duties at 
a medical device manufacturing or import company (or two years, in the case of a 
graduate of a junior college with a three-year course of study pursuant to Article 48 (1) of 
the Higher Education Act); 
8. 
A person who has graduated from a high school or high technical school under 
Subparagraph 3 of Article 2 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (including a 
person deemed to have an educational attainment equal to or higher than such school 
under statutes or regulations, but excluding a person falling under Subparagraph 9) who 
has engaged in quality management work for at least 5 years in a company that 
manufactures or imports medical devices; 
9. 
A person who has graduated from a high school tailored to industry demands in a 
medical-device-related field under Article 90 (1) 10 of the Enforcement Decree of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act who has engaged in quality management work 
for at least three years in a company that manufactures or imports medical devices; 
10. A person who has engaged in quality management work for at least six years in a 
company that manufactures or imports medical devices. 
(3)  Where a manufacturer has 2 or more quality managers under Paragraph (1), the work shall be 
divided and the limits of the responsibilities of each quality manager shall be specified. 
 
Article 12 (Scope of Duties of Quality Managers) (1) The scope of duties to be performed by 
quality managers under Article 6-2 (1) of the Act shall be as follows: 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
10 
 
1. 
Inspecting the hygiene of employees thoroughly and providing them with the education 
and training necessary to produce and import medical devices with excellent quality; 
2. 
Supervising whether employees receive education and training under Subparagraph 1; 
3. 
Preparing a standard operating procedure (SOP) to manufacture medical devices in 
accordance with the standards for manufacturing and quality management systems 
specified in Subparagraph 2 of Annex 2 and requiring employees to manufacture medical 
devices according to such procedure; 
4. 
Thoroughly conducting the tests, inspections, or examinations required for the processes 
from the warehousing of raw materials to the release of finished products; preparing and 
keeping manufacturing management records and quality management records for each 
manufacturing unit; and retaining such records for 5 years from manufacturing dates 
(referring to a period corresponding to the life cycle of a product, where such life cycle 
exceeds 5 years); 
5. 
Evaluating the results of the quality management of manufacturing sites and determining 
whether to ship the products; 
6. 
Dealing with affairs related to the establishment, implementation, and maintenance of 
quality management systems in accordance with standards for manufacturing and quality 
management systems specified in Subparagraph 2 of Annex 2; 
7. 
Managing the facilities of manufacturing sites in a sanitary manner so as not to cause any 
harm to health and hygiene and preventing cross-contamination, contamination from the 
outside, etc.; 
8. 
Managing and supervising objects that are likely to cause any harm so that they are not 
placed in working places and preventing substances hazardous to public health from being 
generated in the working place; 
9. 
Handling other affairs determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety, which are related to manufacturing management, quality management, and safety 
management, among the matters to be observed by the manufacturers under Article 27 (1). 
(2) When a quality manager ceases to engage in quality management work in the relevant working 
places, he or she may submit a notification of his or her status of not working as a quality 
manager in Form 10 (including a notification in electronic form) to the Commissioner of the 
Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety. 
(3) No quality manager shall concurrently engage in affairs other than those referred to in 
Paragraph (1); Provided, that the same shall not apply in any of the following cases: 
1. 
When he or she handles affairs not affecting the duties of a quality manager; 
2. 
When a manufacturer concurrently engages in import business and a quality manager of 
the manufacturing company handles the affairs of a quality manager of the import 
company. 
 
Article 13 (Content and Hours of Education for Quality Managers) (1) The content of 
education under Article 6-2 (2) of the Act shall be as follows: 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
11 
 
1. 
The latest standard specifications for medical devices; 
2. 
Statutes, regulations, systems, and technology necessary for safety management, such 
as ensuring the safety and effectiveness of medical devices; 
3. 
Statutes, regulations, systems, and technology necessary for the manufacture and quality 
management of medical devices; 
4. 
Other matters determined by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety for the manufacturing 
management, quality management, and safety management of medical devices. 
(2) At least 8 hours of education shall be provided per year. 
(3) A quality manager shall receive education conducted by an institution offering education for 
quality managers under Article 14 (1) within 6 months from the date of commencement of 
work: Provided, That this shall not apply when he or she completes the provided education in 
the pertinent year before working as a quality manager. <Amended on Jun. 24, 2021> 
 
Article 14 (Designation of Institutions Offering Education for Quality Managers) (1) An 
institution that intends to be designated as an institution offering education for quality managers 
(hereinafter “institution offering education”) under Article 6-2 (5) of the Act shall satisfy the 
following requirements: <Amended on Jan. 21, 2022> 
1. 
Being the NIDS or medical device-related institutions or organizations publicly 
announced by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
2. 
Having specialists, such as an education manager who manages and supervises the 
overall operation of necessary education, personnel necessary for operating education, 
etc.; 
3. 
Having an educational facility and the equipment necessary for providing education. 
(2) A person who intends to apply for an institution’s designation under Article 6-2 (5) of the Act 
shall submit an application for designation as an institution offering education for quality 
managers of medical devices in Form 11 to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, along with 
the following documents and data: <Amended on Jan. 21, 2022> 
1. 
Data regarding the current status of the operational organization and personnel to provide 
education; 
2. 
Data regarding the current retention status of educational facilities and equipment; 
3. 
Evidentiary data regarding the calculation of tuition fees; 
4. 
Regulations on the implementation of education; 
5. 
Basic educational plans. 
(3) Upon receipt of an application under Paragraph (2), the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
may conduct a fact-finding survey to evaluate whether the details of such application 
satisfy the requirements for designation under Paragraph (1). <Amended on Jan. 21, 2022>  
(4) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety designates an institution offering education, he or 
she shall issue the applicant with a certificate of designation in Form 12. <Amended on Jun. 14, 
2018> 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
12 
 
(5) When an institution offering education intends to modify its designated name, location, or 
representative under Paragraph (4), it shall submit to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety an 
application for the change of designation as an institution offering education for quality 
managers of medical devices in Form 11-2 within 30 days from the date reasons for such 
change occur, along with a certificate of designation as an institution offering education for 
quality managers of medical devices and documents verifying changed matters. <Newly 
inserted on Jun. 14. 2018, Jan. 21. 2022> 
(6) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety may modify the designation of an institution offering 
education after verifying an application, etc. prescribed in Paragraph (5). In such cases, he or 
she shall issue a certificate of designation as an institution offering education for quality 
managers of medical devices, stating the changed matters therein. <Newly inserted on Jun 14, 
2018> 
(7) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety designates an institution offering education under 
Paragraph (4) or modifies designation under Paragraph (6), he or she shall publicly announce 
the fact that such institution is designated or designation is modified, and the name and 
location of the institution and the name of its representative on the website, etc. of the Ministry 
of Food and Drug Safety. <Newly inserted on Jun. 14, 2018> 
(8) An institution offering education may receive tuition fees from educatees in consideration of 
the expenses incurred in education, such as expenses for educational materials or on-site 
training and stipends for instructors. In such cases, the head of the institution offering 
education shall determine tuition fees so as to not exceed actual expenses. <Amended on Jun. 
14, 2018> 
(9) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (8), details of qualifications for the designation 
as an institution offering education and other matters necessary for the designation, 
management, etc. of such institution shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety. <Amended on Jun. 14. 2018, Jan. 21, 2022> 
 
Article 15 (Compliance for Institutions Offering Education) An institution offering education 
shall comply with the following matters in accordance with Article 6-2 (6) of the Act: 
1. 
To formulate an annual educational plan including educatees and educational content for 
the following year in accordance with the basic educational plan under Article 14 (2) 5 
and to submit it to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety before the following business 
year commences; 
2. 
To provide education in accordance with the annual educational plan in Subparagraph 1; 
3. 
To develop educational materials and provide them to educatees; 
4. 
To issue a certificate with a person who completes the education, to record matters 
regarding the provision of education, such as a list of persons who have completed the 
education, and to retain such records for 2 years from the date such matters are recorded; 
5. 
To report records regarding the provision of education of the preceding year to the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety by January 31 of the following year. 
(2) Required details regarding the establishment of an educational plan or methods of education 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
13 
 
provision prescribed in each subparagraph of Article 1 shall be determined and publicly 
notified by The Minister of Food and Drug Safety.  
[Wholly Amended on Jan. 21, 2022] 
 
Article 15-2 (Designation of Institutions for Reviewing Technical Documents) (1) An institution 
that intends to be designated as a technical documentation review body under Article 6-4 (1) of the 
Act shall meet the standards for designation determined and publicly notified by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety, such as the organization and personnel necessary to review technical 
documents, etc. for each field and operational standards. 
(2) A person who intends to apply for the designation of an institution as a technical 
documentation review body shall submit to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety an 
application for the designation as a technical documentation review body on medical devices 
in Form 12-2 (including an application in electronic form), along with the following 
documents (including electronic documents): 
1. 
Documents regarding the current status of organization and personnel (for the current 
status of personnel, including documents evidencing qualifications and work experience); 
2. 
Documents regarding operational standards; 
3. 
Documents regarding fields for reviewing technical documents, etc.; 
4. 
Documents determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, 
which evidence financial capabilities to review technical documents, etc. 
(3) Upon receipt of an application under Paragraph (2), the Minister of Food and Drug Safety may 
conduct a fact-finding survey to evaluate whether the details of such application meet the 
standards for designation. 
(4) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety designates a technical documentation review body, 
they shall issue the applicant with a certificate of designation as a technical documentation 
review body on medical devices in Form 12-3. 
(5) When a technical documentation review body intends to modify any of the following matters, 
it shall submit to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety an application for the change of 
designated matters of a technical documentation review body on medical devices in Form 12-4 
(including an application in electronic form) within 30 days from the date reasons for such 
change occur, along with a certificate of designation as a technical documentation review body 
on medical devices and documents verifying changed matters (including electronic documents): 
1. 
The representative of the technical documentation review body; 
2. 
The name and location of the technical documentation review body; 
3. 
Fields for reviewing technical documents, etc. 
(6) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety modifies the designation of a technical 
documentation review body, he or she shall issue a certificate of designation as a technical 
documentation review body on medical devices, stating the changed matters therein. 
(7) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety designates a technical documentation review body 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
14 
 
or modifies designation thereof, he or she shall publicly announce the name, location, 
representative, etc. of the institution on the website, etc. of the Ministry of Food and Drug 
Safety. 
(8) Details regarding the scope of the documents to be submitted under Paragraph (2) shall be 
determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
[Newly Inserted on May 1, 2017] 
 
Article 15-3 (Compliance for Institutions for Reviewing Technical Documents) “Matters 
prescribed by Ordinance of the Prime Minister” in Article 6-4 (3) of the Act refer to the following: 
1. 
The operational standards of institutions for reviewing technical documents determined 
and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall be observed; 
2. 
The results of the review of technical documents shall be reported to the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety, as determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety; 
3. 
A copy of a notice of the review result of technical documents and records regarding the 
review of such documents shall be retained for 5 years from the date of notification of the 
technical document review’s results; 
4. 
Other matters determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
regarding the preparation, issuance, etc. of a notice of the review result of technical 
documents shall be observed. 
[Newly Inserted on May 1, 2017] 
 
Article 16 (Application for Conditional Approval) (1) A person who intends to obtain 
conditional manufacturing business approval under Article 7 (1) of the Act shall submit an 
application in Form 1 to the Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety having 
jurisdiction over the location of a manufacturing site, along with the following documents. In such 
cases, the Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety shall verify a corporation 
registration certificate (limited to a corporation), a certified copy of the land register, and a certified 
copy of the building register through administrative data matching under Article 36 (1) of the 
Electronic Government Act: <Amended on Jan. 21, 2022> 
1. 
When manufacturing facilities are installed in newly constructed buildings, documents 
verifying the ownership of land (when the ownership can be verified with a certified copy 
of the land register, such verification shall be in lieu of the supporting documents) or a 
copy of a lease contract; 
2. 
When manufacturing facilities are installed in existing buildings, documents verifying the 
ownership of such buildings (when the ownership can be verified with a certified copy of 
the building register, such verification shall be in lieu of the supporting documents) or a 
copy of a lease contract; 
3. 
The documents listed in the subparagraphs of Article 3 (1). 
(2) A person who intends to obtain conditional manufacturing approval under Article 7 (1) of the 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
15 
 
Act shall submit an application in Form 3 (including an application in electronic form) to the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety, along with the documents listed in Article 5 (1) 2 (including 
electronic documents). <Amended on Aug. 7, 2024> 
(3) A person who intends to obtain conditional manufacturing certification under Article 7 (1) of 
the Act shall submit an application in Form 5 (including an application in electronic form) to 
the head of the NIDS, along with the documents listed in Article 5 (1) 2 (including electronic 
documents). <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018; Aug. 7, 2024> 
(4) A person who intends to file a conditional manufacturing notification under Article 7 (1) of the 
Act shall submit a notification in Form 7 (including a notification in electronic form) to the 
head of the NIDS. <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018; Aug. 7, 2024> 
(5) Upon granting conditional manufacturing business approval, conditional manufacturing 
approval, or conditional manufacturing certification or upon receipt of a conditional 
manufacturing notification, the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, the Commissioner of the 
Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety, or the head of the NIDS shall state the matters 
prescribed in Articles 3 (3), 5 (2), 6 (2), or 7 (2) and the conditions of approval, 
certification, or notification in the manufacturing business approval register, manufacturing 
approval register, manufacturing certification register, or manufacturing notification register; 
and shall issue a conditional license for manufacturing businesses in Form 13, a conditional 
license for manufacturing in Form 14, a conditional certificate of manufacturing in Form 15, or 
a conditional notification of manufacturing in Form 15-2. <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018; Aug. 7, 
2024> 
 
Article 17 (Notification and Verification of Compliance with Conditions) (1) When a person 
who has obtained conditional approval or certification or filed a conditional notification under 
Article 16 complies with the conditions of approval, certification, or notification, he or she shall 
submit documents evidencing such compliance to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety having jurisdiction over the location 
of the manufacturing site, or head of the NIDS. <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018> 
(2)  Upon receipt of the documents prescribed in Paragraph (1), the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety, Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety, or head of the NIDS 
shall verify whether the relevant conditions are complied with within 20 days from the date of 
submission of such documents; issue a manufacturing business license under Article 3 (3), a 
manufacturing license under Article 5 (2), a manufacturing certificate under Article 6 (2), or a 
manufacturing notification under Article 7 (2) instead of a conditional license for 
manufacturing business, a conditional license for manufacturing, a conditional certificate of 
manufacturing, or a conditional notification of manufacturing under Article 16 (5), 
respectively; and enter the date of compliance with the conditions in the notification register. 
<Amended on Jun. 14, 2018> 
 
Article 18 (Medical Devices Exempt from Post-Marketing Surveillance) (1) When the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety intends to require the applicant for manufacturing approval under Article 8 
(1) of the Act to conduct surveillance on the safety and effectiveness of the relevant medical device 
(hereinafter “post-marketing surveillance”), he or she shall state the period of the post-marketing 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
16 
 
surveillance on the manufacturing approval. <Amended on Jan. 21, 2022> 
(2)  The Minister of Food and Drug Safety may exempt post-marketing surveillance of any of the 
following medical devices following the proviso of Article 8 (1), with the exception of its 
subparagraphs, of the Act, after deliberation by the Medical Devices Committee under Article 
5 (1) (hereinafter the “Medical Devices Committee”): <Amended on Jan. 21, 2022> 
1. 
Newly developed Class I and Class II medical devices; 
2. 
Newly developed medical devices that received approval, etc. in foreign countries of 
which the level of safety management is deemed by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
to be equal or higher than the safety management in the Republic of Korea and have been 
used in foreign countries following the standards publicly notified by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety; 
(3)  Deleted. <Jan. 21, 2022> 
(4)  Deleted. <Jan. 21, 2022> 
(5)  Deleted. <Jan. 21, 2022> 
[Title Amended on Jan. 21, 2022] 
 
Article 18-2 (Approval of Post-Marketing Surveillance Protocol) (1) A person who intends to 
obtain approval for a post-marketing surveillance protocol following the former part of Article 8 (3) 
of the Act shall submit to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, at least 30 days before the 
market launch of the medical device, an application for the approval of a medical device post-
marketing surveillance protocol in Form 16, along with the post-marketing surveillance protocol 
which includes the purpose, period, method, and number of the subjects of the post-marketing 
surveillance and data on the institution that plans to conduct such surveillance. 
(2) A person who intends to obtain approval for the change of post-marketing surveillance 
following the latter part of Article 8 
(3) of the Act shall submit to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety an application for the approval 
of change of a medical device post-marketing surveillance protocol in Form 16, along with the 
following documents: 
(a) An amendment of the post-marketing surveillance protocol; 
(b) Documents verifying changes. 
(3) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety receives an application for the approval or change 
of a post-marketing surveillance protocol under Paragraph (1) or (2), he or she shall determine 
whether to issue the approval within 6 months from the date of application and shall notify the 
applicant of his or her decision. 
(4) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety approves a post-marketing surveillance protocol 
under Paragraph (3), he or she shall issue the applicant with a medical device post-marketing 
surveillance approval certificate in Form 16-2 and include the changes in the changes and 
disposition, etc. section of the certificate. 
(5) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (4), details regarding the guidelines for preparing 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
17 
 
documents required for the application for the approval or amendment of a post-marketing 
surveillance protocol, etc. shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety. 
[Newly Inserted on Jan. 21, 2022] 
 
Article 18-3 (Methods and Procedures for Periodic Reports of Post-Marketing Surveillance) 
(1) A person who intends to report the data collected during post-marketing surveillance, the status 
of the execution of the surveillance, etc. following Article 8 (4) of the Act shall submit to the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety a periodic report on medical device post-marketing surveillance 
in Form 16-3 within the period prescribed in Paragraph (2), along with the following documents: 
1. 
Primary data, including a record of observations on the subject of the post-marketing 
surveillance; 
2. 
Data regarding the result of analysis and assessment on the post-marketing surveillance; 
3. 
Data regarding the side effects of the medical device subject to post-marketing 
surveillance. 
(2) The report under Paragraph (1) shall be submitted every 6 months in the first year and every 
year from the second year, and the deadline for the report shall be 2 months from the end of the 
period covered by each report. 
(3) Notwithstanding Paragraph (2), the document submitted with the application for review under 
Article 8-2 (1) of the Act may be in lieu of the last report of the post-marketing surveillance 
period. 
(4) Details regarding the guidelines, etc. for preparing documents to be submitted with the report 
under Paragraphs (1) and (3) shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety. 
[Newly Inserted on Jan. 21, 2022] 
 
Article 18-4 (Submission of Post-Marketing Surveillance Results) (1) The “Data prescribed by 
Ordinance of the Prime Minister” in Article 8-2 (1) of the Act refers to data on the status of 
domestic and foreign sales and approval in foreign countries. 
(2) A person who requests for review following Article 8-2 (1) of the Act shall submit an 
application for the review of post-marketing surveillance results in Form 16-4 to the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety, along with the following documents: 
1. 
Investigation data on the usage performance according to the post-marketing 
surveillance results regarding the safety and effectiveness of the medical device after its 
domestic market launch; 
2. 
Data from the Republic of Korea and foreign countries on the side effects and safety 
of medical devices subject to post-marketing surveillance, which includes cases of the 
side effects of such devices; 
3. 
Data on domestic and foreign sales and approval in foreign countries. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
18 
 
(3) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall notify the applicant the result of the review 
conducted after deliberation by the Medical Devices Committee within 6 months from the 
date of application in the form of notification in Form 17, following Paragraph (2). 
(4) Details regarding the guidelines, etc. for preparing documents to be submitted with the report 
under Paragraph (2) shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety. 
[Newly inserted on Jan. 21, 2022] 
 
Article 18-5 (Measures Including Recall and Destruction after the Post-Marketing 
Surveillance Results) (1) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety intends to order necessary 
measures, including sales suspension, recall, destruction, etc. following Article 8-2 (2) of the Act, 
he or she shall notify the manufacturer of the medical device subject to post-marketing surveillance 
of the following matters: 
1. 
The name of the medical device; 
2. 
The content of and reason for the measure. 
(2)  Upon receipt of the notification under Paragraph (1), the manufacturer of the medical device 
subject to post-marketing surveillance shall implement the relevant measure within 30 days 
from the date of the notification and notify the result of the implementation to the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety. 
[Newly inserted on Jan. 21, 2022] 
 
Article 19 (Methods and Procedures for Re-evaluation) (1) When the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety intends to re-evaluate medical devices following Article 9 of the Act, he or she shall 
determine items subject to re-evaluation after deliberation by the Medical Devices Committee and 
publicly announce the following matters on the website of the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety: 
1. 
Items subject to re-evaluation; 
2. 
The period for applying for re-evaluation; 
3. 
The details of the data required for re-evaluation. 
(2) A manufacturer of medical devices falling under the items subject to re-evaluation shall 
submit an application for re-evaluation of medical devices in Form 18 (including an 
application in electronic form) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety during the application 
period for re-evaluation under Paragraph (1) 2, along with the data mentioned in Paragraph (1) 
3 (including data in electronic form). 
(3) Upon receipt of an application for re-evaluation under Paragraph (2), the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety shall re-evaluate the relevant items, allow the perusal of the draft 
results of re-evaluation for at least 1 month so as to provide an opportunity for the 
manufacturer of the relevant items subject to re-evaluation to respond to such results, and 
publicly announce the results of re-evaluation on the website of the Ministry of Food and Drug 
Safety. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
19 
 
(4) Details regarding the guidelines for preparing the data to be submitted, the requirements for 
each data and the scope of exemption, the scope of re-evaluation, and the standards for 
conducting re-evaluation, etc. under Paragraphs (2) and (3) shall be determined and publicly 
notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
Article 20 (Approval of Clinical Investigation Plan) (1) A person who intends to obtain approval 
for a clinical investigation plan following Article 10 (1) of the Act or a person who intends to 
modify the approved clinical investigation plan shall submit to the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety an application for the approval of a clinical investigation plan in Form 19 (including an 
application in electronic form) or an application for the approval of the change of a clinical 
investigation plan in Form 20 (including an application in electronic form) and a written approval 
for a clinical investigation plan, respectively, along with the following documents (including 
electronic documents) and data (including data in electronic form): Provided, That when the person 
applies for the approval of change of the clinical investigation plan, he or she need not submit the 
data mentioned in Subparagraphs 2 and 3, as determined and publicly notified by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety: <Amended on Oct. 22, 2019, May 1, 2020> 
1. 
A clinical investigation plan or a clinical investigation plan amendment; 
2. 
Data 
evidencing that medical devices subject to clinical investigations are 
manufactured in compliance with the standards for facilities and manufacturing and 
quality management systems under Annex 2; 
3. 
The data mentioned in Subparagraphs 2 through 5 of Article 9 (2). 
(2) A clinical investigation plan under Paragraph 1 (1) shall include the following matters: 
<Amend on Jan. 16, 2024; Aug. 7, 2024> 
1. 
The title of clinical investigation; 
2. 
Name and location of the clinical investigation site [provided that, if there is any 
institution other than a clinical investigation site that conducts the clinical investigation 
pursuant to the proviso of Article 10(4)1 of the Act (hereinafter referred to as the 
‘participating institution’), the reasons therefor, the name and location of such institution, 
and the matters concerning the management and supervision of the institution shall be 
included]; 
3. 
The names and positions of clinical investigation principal investigators, subinvestigators, 
and joint researchers; 
4. 
The name and position of the person who manages medical devices for clinical 
investigation; 
5. 
The name and address of the person who intends to conduct a clinical investigation; 
6. 
The objectives and background of clinical investigation; 
7. 
The outlines of the medical devices subject to a clinical investigation (including the 
intended uses, target diseases, or indications); 
8. 
The inclusion and exclusion criteria for the persons who participate in the clinical 
investigation (hereinafter “subjects”), number of subjects, and justification therefor; 
9. 
The periods for clinical investigation; 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
20 
 
10. The methods for clinical investigations (including intended use, methods for use, shelf life, 
combination therapy, etc.); 
11. Items for observation, items for clinical tests, and methods for observational tests; 
12. Expected side effects and precautions for use; 
13. The standards for suspension and elimination; 
14. The standards and methods of evaluating effectiveness and the methods for 
interpreting effectiveness (based on the methods for statistical analysis); 
15. The standards and methods for evaluating the safety, including side effects, and the 
reporting methods; 
16. The informed consent form; 
17. The agreement on compensation for victims; 
18. Matters regarding the treatment of the subjects after conducting a clinical investigation; 
19. Measures to protect the safety of subjects; 
20. Other matters necessary to conduct a clinical investigation safely and scientifically. 
(3)  Notwithstanding paragraph (1), where a person who has undergone a preliminary review for 
manufacturing authorization or notification pursuant to Article 11 of the Act submits a notice 
of preliminary review results pursuant to Article 25(3), such person may omit the submission 
of the data under each subparagraph of paragraph (1) that pertain to the matters deemed 
compliant as a result of the preliminary review. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 16, 2024> 
(4) Any of the following cases of following subparagraph shall be excluded from the requirement 
for approval by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety pursuant to the proviso of Article 10(1) 
of the Act. <Amended on Jan. 16, 2024; Aug. 7, 2024> 
1.  Clinical investigations that fall under any of the following items and that use medical 
devices already placed on the market 
(a)  A investigation for observing clinical effects and investigating adverse events 
regarding the approved matters of medical devices on the market; 
(b)  A investigation for collecting data about safety and effectiveness regarding the 
approved performance and intended uses, etc. of medical devices on the market; 
(c)  Any other investigations using medical devices on the market which are 
determined by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety as there is no direct 
correlation with safety or it is not likely to cause ethical problems. 
2.  Any clinical investigation that falls under one of the following subparagraphs and is 
considered to pose minimal risk of harm to clinical investigation subjects: 
(a)  A clinical investigation conducted in accordance with the clinical investigation 
methods prescribed in the standard specifications pursuant to Article 19 of the Act; 
(b)  A clinical investigation of a medical device that measures and displays biosignals, 
etc. in vitro or on the body surface; 
(c)  A clinical investigation independently conducted by an investigator without a 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
21 
 
sponsor, which the Minister of Food and Drug Safety deems to pose minimal risk of 
harm to the subjects. 
(5) When an application for approval of a clinical investigation plan submitted under Paragraph (1) 
is deemed appropriate following the review thereof, the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
shall issue a written approval of a clinical investigation plan in Form 21 to the applicant, and 
when the Minister approves the amendment of the clinical investigation plan, he or she shall 
state the changed matters in the columns for amendment and disposition in the written 
approval. <Amended on Jan. 16, 2024> 
(6) Details regarding the guidelines for preparing the data to be submitted with the application for 
the approval of a clinical investigation plan or approval of amendment thereof, the scope of 
data to be exempt, the requirements, standards, and procedures for approval, etc. under 
Paragraphs (1) through (5) shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety. <Amended on Jan. 16, 2024> 
 
Article 21 (Standards and Procedures for Designating Clinical Investigation Sites) (1) A 
clinical investigation site under Article 10 (3) of the Act (hereinafter “clinical investigation site”) 
shall be any of the following medical institutions: <Amended on Apr. 13, 2020> 
1. 
A general hospital under Article 3 (2) 3 (e) of the Medical Service Act; 
2. 
A training hospital, training dental clinic, or oriental medical hospital under the 
Regulations on the Training and Recognition, etc. of Qualifications of Medical Specialists, 
the Regulations on the Training and Recognition, etc. of Qualifications of Dentists, or the 
Regulations on the Training and Recognition, etc. of Qualifications of Oriental Medical 
Doctors; 
3. 
A specialized hospital designated following Article 3-5 of the Medical Service Act; 
4. 
A hospital with personnel, facilities, etc. meeting the standards for the designation of a 
training hospital or training dental clinic for a single specialization under Article 4 (2) 1 (a) 
of the Enforcement Decree of the Act on the Improvement of Training Conditions and 
Status of Medical Residents, or Article 7 (2) 2 of the Regulations on the Training and 
Recognition, etc. of Qualifications of Dentists; 
5. 
A clinical investigation center in a high-tech medical complex designated following the 
Special Act on the Designation and Support of High-Tech Medical Complexes. 
(2) A person who intends to apply for the designation of a clinical investigation site shall submit 
an application for the designation as a clinical investigation site for medical devices in Form 22 
(including an application in electronic form) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety along 
with the following documents (including electronic documents): 
1. 
Deleted. <Dec. 31, 2018> 
2. 
Regulations on administrative procedures, etc. necessary for clinical investigations; 
3. 
Regulations on the operation of an institutional review board for clinical investigations 
under Subparagraph 6 of Annex 3 and documents regarding the organization thereof (if 
the review has been entrusted to an outside designated institutional review board under 
item (e) of that subparagraph, a contract for the entrustment shall be attached thereto); 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
22 
 
4. 
Regulations on entrusted review, when the person intends to operate a designated 
institutional review board following Subparagraph 6 (e) of Annex 3 to be entrusted with 
review of clinical investigations conducted by another clinical investigation site; 
5. 
Documents evidencing that the person falls under any of the subparagraphs of Paragraph 
(1). 
(3) Upon receipt of an application under Paragraph (2), the public official in charge shall verify a 
corporation registration certificate (limited to a corporation) and a license for opening a 
medical institution through administrative data matching under Article 36 (1) of the Electronic 
Government Act: Provided, That when an applicant does not consent to the verification of the 
license for opening a medical institution, the public official shall ensure that such applicant 
attaches a copy thereof. <Amended on Dec. 31, 2018> 
(4) Upon receipt of an application under Paragraph (2), the Minister of Food and Drug Safety may 
conduct a fact-finding survey to evaluate whether the details of such application meet the 
standards for designation. 
(5) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety designates a clinical investigation site, he or she 
shall issue a certificate of designation as a clinical investigation site for medical devices in 
Form 23 to the applicant. 
(6) When a clinical investigation site intends to modify designated matters, it shall submit an 
application for change of the designation as a clinical investigation site for medical devices in 
Form 24 to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety within 30 days from the date reasons for 
such change occur, along with a certificate of designation as a clinical investigation site for 
medical devices and documents verifying changed matters. Provided, however, that if the 
reason for the change is a change of the head of the medical institution or the founder, or a 
change in location due to administrative district reorganization, only documents verifying the 
changes may be submitted. <Amended on Jul. 8, 2024> 
(7) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety modifies the designation of a clinical investigation 
site, he or she shall state the changed matters in a certificate of designation as a clinical 
investigation site for medical devices. 
(8) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety designates a clinical investigation site or modifies 
designation thereof following Paragraph (5) or (7), he or she shall publicly announce the name, 
location, representative, etc. of the clinical investigation site on the website, etc. 
(9) Details necessary for the designation, operation, management, etc. of a clinical investigation 
site shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
 
Article 21-2 (Clinical Investigations Conducted at Institutions Other Than Clinical 
Investigation Sites) A clinical investigation for which participation of an institution other than a 
clinical investigation site is required due to the nature of the clinical investigation pursuant to the 
proviso to Article 10 (4) 1 of the Act means any clinical investigation falling under one of the 
following subparagraphs: 
1. 
A clinical investigation of a medical device that is fixedly installed in a building or 
facility and cannot be moved; 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
23 
 
2. 
A clinical investigation in which subjects may be recruited only from institutions falling 
under one of the following items: 
(a)  Infectious disease control institutions designated pursuant to Article 36 (1) and (2) of 
the Infectious Disease Control and Prevention Act; 
(b)  Medical institutions, isolation facilities, sanatoria, or clinics designated, established, 
or operated as infectious disease control institutions pursuant to the subparagraphs of 
Article 37 (1) of the Infectious Disease Control and Prevention Act. 
[Newly Inserted on August 7, 2024] 
 
Article 22 (Collective Facilities) A “Collective facility prescribed by Ordinance of the Prime 
Minister, such as a social welfare facility” in the text of Article 10 (4) 2 of the Act refers to any of 
the following facilities: <Amended on Jun. 12, 2019> 
1. 
Child welfare facilities under Article 52 (1) 1, 2, 3, and 5 of the Child Welfare Act; 
2. 
Residential homes for persons with disabilities under Article 58 (1) 1 of the Act on 
Welfare of Persons with Disabilities; 
3. 
Mental health improvement facilities under Subparagraph 4 of Article 3 of the Act on the 
Improvement of Mental Health and the Support for Welfare Services for Mental Patients 
(limited to those with protection rooms, in cases of mental medical institutions); 
4. 
Residential welfare institutions for senior citizens (excluding welfare houses for senior 
citizens) and medical and welfare institutions for senior citizens (excluding geriatric 
hospitals) established following Article 34 of the Social Welfare Services Act; 
5. 
Welfare institutions for senior citizens under Article 32 (1) 1 and 2 of the Welfare of 
Senior Citizens Act and Article 34 (1) 1 and 2 of that Act; 
6. 
Mo ther-and-child family welfare facilities (support for basic living and self-support 
living), father-and-child family welfare facilities (support for basic living and self-support 
living), unmarried mother-and-child family welfare facilities (support for basic living), 
and temporary support welfare facilities under Article 19 of the Single-Parent Family 
Support Act; 
7. 
Support facilities for victims, etc. of commercial sex acts under Article 9 (1) 1 and 2 of 
the Act on the Prevention of Commercial Sex Acts and Protection, etc. of Victims; 
8. 
Protection facilities for victims of sexual violence under Article 12 of the Sexual 
Violence Prevention and Victims Protection Act; 
9. 
Shelters for victims of domestic violence under Article 7 of the Act on the Prevention of 
Domestic Violence and Protection, etc. of Victims; 
10. Facilities established by a person who obtains approval for a rehabilitation service 
following Article 67 of the Act on Probation, etc. (limited to those with committal 
facilities); 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
24 
 
11. Correctional facilities under the Administration and Treatment of Correctional Institution 
Inmates Act and the Act on the Execution of Criminal Penalties in the Armed Forces and 
the Treatment of the Military Inmates; 
12. Juvenile reformatories and Juvenile Classification Review Boards under the Act on the 
Treatment of Protected Juveniles, etc.; 
13. Detention facilities under Article 52 (2) of the Immigration Act. 
 
Article 23 Deleted. <Jun. 15, 2016> 
 
Article 24 (Standards for Conducting Clinical Investigations) (1) Pursuant to Article 10 (5) and 
(7) of the Act, clinical investigations shall be conducted according to the following standards and 
the Good Clinical Practice for Medical Devices specified in Annex 3: <Amended Jan. 16, 2024; 
Aug. 7, 2024> 
1. 
Clinical investigations shall be conducted safely and scientifically according to a clinical 
investigation plan; 
2. 
 Clinical investigations shall be conducted at a clinical investigation site designated by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety or at a clinical investigation participation institution 
pursuant to Article 20 (2) 2. Where the clinical investigation is conducted at a clinical 
investigation participation institution, the clinical investigation site shall supervise and 
oversee the institution. 
3. 
Clinical investigation principal investigators shall be selected from among those with 
expertise, ethical discipline, and considerable experience in conducting clinical 
investigations of the relevant medical devices; 
4. 
An explanation shall be provided to subjects of clinical investigations regarding clinical 
investigation details and the details of and procedures for compensation for potential harm 
that could affect the health of the subjects during the clinical investigations and other 
relevant matters, and informed consent (Including non-face-to-face consent provided 
through an electronic document bearing an electronic signature pursuant to the Electronic 
Signature Act; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Article.) thereto shall be obtained 
from the subjects: Provided, That when it is impracticable to obtain consent from a 
subject because of his or her lack of comprehension and communication ability or other 
reasons, consent shall be obtained from a person with parental authority, guardian, etc.; 
5. 
Safety measures for subjects of clinical investigations shall be prepared; 
6. 
Medical devices for clinical investigations shall not be used for purposes other than 
clinical investigations: Provided, that the same shall not apply to cases prescribed by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety, such as when the medical devices are used for patients 
with life-threatening and critical illnesses, including terminal cancer; 
7. 
Clinical investigations shall commence within 2 years from the date the approval of a 
clinical investigation plan or approval of modification thereof was obtained; 
8. 
Clinical investigation investigators shall be provided with clinical investigation data 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
25 
 
books before conducting the clinical investigations, as determined by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety; 
9. 
When new data, information, etc. on safety and effectiveness is obtained, clinical 
investigation investigators shall be informed thereof without delay and it shall be 
examined whether or not to reflect this new data, etc.; 
10. Medical devices for clinical investigations that are appropriately manufactured according 
to the standards for facilities and manufacturing and quality management systems under 
Annex 2 shall be used; 
11. When adverse events occur while using a medical device, a person who has obtained 
approval of a clinical investigation plan shall report them to the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety according to the Good Clinical Practices for Medical Devices specified in 
Annex 3; 
12. In the case of a clinical investigation under Article 20 (4) 2 that has not been approved 
pursuant to the proviso to Article 10 (1) of the Act, the performance and safety of the 
product shall be verified, prior to conducting the clinical investigation, through the data 
specified in each item of Article 9 (2) 4; 
13. Other matters determined by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety for the proper 
conduct of a clinical investigation shall be observed. 
(2) Regarding the status of a clinical investigation, a person who has obtained approval for a 
clinical investigation plan shall submit a report on the status of clinical investigation execution 
in Form 25 (including a report in electronic form) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety by 
the end of February each year, along with summarized data related to the safety evaluation of 
medical devices for clinical investigations under Subparagraph 8 (q) (i) of Annex 3; and when 
the clinical investigation is completed, he or she shall submit a report in Form 26 (including a 
report in electronic form) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety within 20 days from the date 
of completion. <Amended on Oct. 22, 2019> 
(3) A clinical investigation sponsor or the head of a clinical investigation site shall retain the 
clinical investigation plan and the records and data regarding the clinical investigation 
execution (including electronic documents) for the periods classified as follows: 
1. 
Data related to clinical investigations for manufacturing or import approval, or approval 
for modification thereof: 3 years from the approval date; 
2. 
Other data related to clinical investigations: 3 years from the date of the completion of 
clinical investigations. 
(4) Notwithstanding the text of Paragraph (1) 4, in the case of a clinical investigation that uses 
data such as patients’ medical records, where the personal information of the patients has been 
processed as pseudonymized information pursuant to Article 28-2 of the Personal Information 
Protection Act, the clinical investigation may be conducted without obtaining the subjects’ 
consent, upon approval of the Institutional Review Board in accordance with Subparagraph 6 
of Annex 3. In such cases, the processing of pseudonymized information shall be governed by 
the Personal Information Protection Act. <Amended on Jan. 16, 2024> 
(5) Details regarding the standards, etc. for designating clinical investigation sites under Paragraph 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
26 
 
(1) shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
 
Article 24-2 (Designation of Institutions Conducting Non-Clinical Studies) (1) A person who 
intends to apply for the designation of an institution as an institution conducting non-clinical studies 
following Article 10-2 (1) of the Act shall satisfy the standards for the designation determined and 
publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, such as specialized personnel, facilities, 
and instruments necessary for each area of non-clinical study. 
(2) A person who intends to apply for the designation of an institution as an institution conducting 
non-clinical studies shall submit an application for designation as an institution conducting 
non-clinical studies of medical devices in Form 26-2 (including an application in electronic 
form) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, along with the following documents (including 
electronic documents): 
1. 
Documents regarding the current status of the organization and personnel (for the current 
status of personnel, including documents evidencing qualifications and work experience); 
2. 
Documents regarding the current status of equipment, instruments, and facilities; 
3. 
Documents evidencing that non-clinical studies have been conducted as determined and 
publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety to evidence that the person is 
capable of conducting non-clinical studies. 
(3) Upon receipt of an application under Paragraph (2), the Minister of Food and Drug Safety may 
conduct a fact-finding survey to evaluate whether the details of such application meet the 
standards for designation. 
(4) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety designates an institution conducting non-clinical 
studies, he or she shall issue the applicant with a certificate of designation as an institution 
conducting non-clinical studies of medical devices in Form 26-3. 
(5) When an institution conducting non-clinical studies intends to modify any of the following 
matters, it shall submit an application for the modification of designated matters of an 
institution conducting non-clinical studies of medical devices in Form 26-4 (including an 
application in electronic form) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety within 30 days from 
the date reasons for such modification occur, along with a certificate of designation as an 
institution conducting non-clinical studies of medical devices and documents verifying the 
changed matters (including electronic documents): 
1. 
The representative and operating officers of the institution conducting non-clinical studies; 
2. 
The name and location of the institution conducting non-clinical studies; 
3. 
Areas of non-clinical studies. 
(6) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety modifies designation of an institution conducting 
non-clinical studies, he or she shall state the changed matters in a certificate of designation as 
an institution conducting non-clinical studies of medical devices and issue such certificate. 
(7) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety designates an institution conducting non-clinical 
studies or modifies such designation, he or she shall publicly announce the name, location, 
representative, etc. of the institution conducting non-clinical studies on the website, etc. of 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
27 
 
the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. 
(8) Details regarding the scope of documents to be submitted under Paragraph (2) shall be 
determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
[Newly inserted on May 1, 2017] 
 
Article 24-3 (Compliance for Institutions Conducting Non-Clinical Studies) “Matters 
prescribed by Ordinance of the Prime Minister” in Article 10-2 (3) of the Act refers to the following 
matters: 
1. 
Preparing a non-clinical study protocol and conducting non-clinical studies according to 
such protocol; 
2. 
Requiring a person unassociated with the relevant non-clinical study to conduct an 
inspection or audit in order to ensure the credibility of non-clinical studies; 
3. 
Evidencing that a non-clinical study has been conducted in compliance with the Good 
Clinical Practice for Non-Clinical Studies determined and publicly notified by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
4. 
Retaining data and records related to non-clinical studies for the periods classified as 
follows: 
(a) Studies for approval of medical devices or approval for modification thereof, or 
studies for certification of medical devices or certification of modification thereof: 5 
years from the date of issuance of a non-clinical study report; 
(b) Studies for other purposes: 3 years from the date of issuance of a non-clinical study 
report. 
[Newly inserted on May 1, 2017] 
 
Article 25 (Subject Matters of Preliminary Reviews) (1) Subject of a preliminary review under 
Article 11 (1) of the Act shall be as follows: 
1. 
Matters regarding technical documents, etc. of newly developed medical devices or 
orphan medical devices under the subparagraphs of Article 8 (1) of the Act; 
2.  Medical devices or in vitro diagnostic medical devices for which submission of data 
related to clinical investigations or clinical performance studies pursuant to Article 9 (2) 6 
or item (b) of subparagraph 5 of Article 9 (3) is required; 
3.  Medical devices designated as innovative medical devices pursuant to Article 21 of the 
Act on Promoting the Medical Device Industry and Supporting Innovative Medical 
Devices (excluding cases where such designation has been canceled); 
4.  Medical devices for clinical investigation or in vitro diagnostic medical devices for 
clinical performance studies pursuant to Article 7 of the Act on In Vitro Diagnostic 
Medical Devices; 
5.  Other medical devices or in vitro diagnostic medical devices that the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety deems to require preliminary review. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
28 
 
(2)  The scope of preliminary review under Article 11 (1) of the Act shall be as follows: <Newly 
Inserted on Jan. 16, 2024> 
1.  Matters related to technical documentation, data on clinical investigations, and data on 
clinical performance studies falling under Article 9 (2) and (3); 
2.  Matters related to clinical investigation plans and clinical performance study plans falling 
under Article 20 (1) 1 and 3, and Article 20 (2), and Article 13 (1) 1 and 3 and Article 13 
(2) of the Enforcement Rule of the Act on In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices. 
(3) A person who intends to request a preliminary review following Article 11 of the Act shall 
submit an application for a preliminary review of medical devices in Form 27 (including an 
application in electronic form) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the head of the 
NIDS according to the following classifications: <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018; Jan. 16, 2024> 
1. 
A person who intends to obtain manufacturing approval for medical devices following 
Article 6 (2) of the Act or undergo a clinical investigation following Article 10 of the Act: 
The Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
2. 
A person who intends to obtain manufacturing certification or to file a manufacturing 
notification: The head of the NIDS. 
(4) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the head of the NIDS shall inform the applicant of 
the results of a preliminary review as prepared in the notice of the results of a preliminary 
review of medical devices in Form 28. <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018; Jan. 16, 2024> 
(5) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (3), the details necessary for the procedures, 
methods, etc. for preliminary reviews shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety. <Amended on Jan. 16, 2024> 
 
Article 26 (Application for Approval for Change of Approved Matters) (1) Following Article 
12 (1) of the Act, when any change is made to matters for which manufacturing business approval 
is granted, a manufacturer shall submit an application for approval for change in Form 29 to the 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety within 30 days from the date such 
change is made, along with the data classified as follows. <Amended on Jan. 21, 2022; Jan. 16, 2024; 
Apr. 1, 2025> 
1. 
When the location of a manufacturing site is modified or another manufacturing site is 
added, a copy of a contract for entrustment (limited to when manufacturing processes or 
testing are entrusted) and data evidencing the compliance with the standards for facilities 
and manufacturing and quality management systems under Annex 2 [excluding the 
manufacturing sites of medical devices that are developed and manufactured merely in the 
form of software that has obtained approval or certification or for which notification is 
filed]); 
2. 
When the Quality Manager has been changed, the following documents regarding the 
newly appointed Quality Manager shall be submitted: 
(a)  Documents verifying the qualifications pursuant to Article 11 (2); provided, 
however, that submission may be exempted if the qualifications of the Quality 
Manager have already been verified through the UDI System. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
29 
 
 
(b)  Documents confirming current employment status, such as a Certificate of 
Employment. 
(2) Upon receipt of an application under Paragraph (1), the Commissioner of the Regional Office 
of Food and Drug Safety shall verify a corporation registration certificate (limited to a 
corporation) or business registration certificate through administrative data matching under 
Article 36 (1) of the Electronic Government Act. However, if the applicant does not consent 
to the verification of the business registration certificate, the applicant shall be required to 
submit the relevant document. <Amended on Apr. 1, 2025> 
(3) Pursuant to Article 12 (1) of the Act, when any change is made to matters regarding 
manufacturing approval or manufacturing certification granted or a manufacturing notification 
filed, a manufacturer shall submit an application for approval for change in Form 30 to the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety and submit an application for certification of change in 
Form 31 or a notification in Form 7 to the head of the NIDS, respectively, along with the 
following documents: <Amended on Jun. 14. 2018; Jan. 21, 2022> 
1. 
Documents verifying changed matters (including electronic documents); 
2. 
Documents under Article 5 (1) 2, when change is made to any important matter that 
affects the safety or effectiveness of products, such as the design, materials, chemical 
components, energy sources, and manufacturing processes of medical devices; 
3. 
A copy of the contract for entrustment (limited to when manufacturing processes or 
testing are entrusted) and data evidencing the compliance with the standards for facilities 
and manufacturing and quality management systems under Annex 2, when the location of 
a manufacturing site of the relevant item is modified or another manufacturing site is 
added (excluding manufacturing sites of medical devices in the form of software). 
(4) When a person to whom the relevant manufacturing facilities, methods, etc. are transferred as a 
consequence of the division, merger, etc. of a company obtains approval for or certification of 
the change of the manufactured item or files a notification of change thereof following 
Paragraph (3), he or she shall submit the relevant application or notification to the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety or the head of the NIDS, along with a transfer or acquisition contract 
regarding the manufacturing facilities, methods, etc. of the relevant item. In such cases, when 
approval for or certification of change of the relevant item is granted, conditions equivalent to 
those on the approval or certification for a transferor may be attached. <Amended on Jun. 14, 
2018> 
(5) When matters modified following Paragraph (3) pertain to the external appearance, packaging 
materials, packaging units, etc. of a manufactured item and are minor matters determined and 
publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, documents stating the details of the 
change (including electronic documents) shall be submitted to the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety or the head of the NIDS, notwithstanding that Paragraph. In such cases, approval for or 
certification of change or a notification of change under Article 12 of the Act shall be deemed 
obtained or filed. <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018> 
(6) In any of the following cases where any change is made to matters approved, certified, or 
notified, approval for or certification of change or a notification of the change under Article 12 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
30 
 
of the Act shall be deemed obtained or filed: Provided, That in cases falling under 
Subparagraph 3, 4, or 6, the same shall apply only when any change is made after an order of 
change is issued by a certain time limit following Article 36 (2) of the Act: <Amended on Jan. 
21, 2022> 
1. 
Change of the standards for the classification and designation of classes under Article 3 of 
the Act; 
2. 
Change of technical documents or clinical investigation data under Article 6 (5) of the Act; 
3. 
Follow -up measures according to a review of post-marketing surveillance of newly-
developed medical devices, etc. under Article 8-2 (2) of the Act; 
4. 
Re-evaluation under Article 9 of the Act; 
5. 
Change of standard specifications under Article 19 of the Act; 
6. 
Measures taken following a report on side effects under Article 31 of the Act. 
(7) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, the Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food 
and Drug Safety, or the head of the NIDS grants approval for or the certification of change or 
accepts a notification of change following Paragraphs (1) through (6), he or she shall enter the 
changed matters in the relevant register. <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018> 
(8) Details regarding the standards and procedures for the approval, certification, or notification of 
change, the requirements for, scope of exemption of, and management of data, and other 
matters under Paragraphs (1) through (7) shall be determined and publicly notified by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
 
Article 27 (Compliance for Manufacturers) (1) Matters to be observed by Compliance 
obligations for medical device manufacturers following Article 13 (1) of the Act shall be as follows: 
<Amended on Dec. 4, 2020, Jan. 21, 2022> 
1. 
Manufacturers shall manage the facilities of sites in a sanitary manner so as to not cause 
any harm to health and hygiene, and shall prevent cross-contamination or contamination, 
etc. from the outside; 
2. 
Manufacturers shall not place objects likely to cause harm in working places, and shall 
prevent substances hazardous to public health from being discharged or released from 
working places; 
3. 
Manufacturers shall prepare and keep documents about warehousing and release of raw 
materials and finished products, manufacturing processes, and quality management 
(including testing standards and methods, etc.) and shall thoroughly conduct 
manufacturing and quality inspections based on such documents; 
4. 
Manufacturers shall prepare and keep the records of manufacturing and quality 
inspections under Subparagraph 3 by manufacturing unit and the records of handling 
customers’ complaints, and shall retain such records for 5 years from the date of 
manufacturing (referring to a period corresponding to the product life cycle, where such 
life cycle exceeds 5 years); 
5. 
When the safety and effectiveness of released medical devices are undermined or the 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
31 
 
quality thereof is poor, manufacturers shall take corrective measures, such as recall, 
without delay; 
6. 
Manufacturers shall release sterile products after verifying that they have been packaged 
and sterilized in new containers; 
7. 
Manufacturers shall release electronic or mechanical products after ensuring their 
electronic, mechanical, and electromagnetic safety; 
8. 
Manufacturers shall release products to come in direct or indirect contact with the human 
body after ensuring their biological safety; 
9. 
When manufacturers become aware of new data or information on the safety and 
effectiveness of approved, certified, or notified medical devices (including cases of side 
effects following the use of the devices), they shall report it and take necessary safety 
measures as determined by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
10. Manufacturers shall maintain the standards for facilities and manufacturing and quality 
management systems under Annex 2; 
11. Manufacturers shall distribute medical devices manufactured in compliance with the 
standards under Subparagraph 2 of Annex 2. In such cases, medical devices manufactured 
for the purpose of the recognition of compliance following Subparagraph 2 (f) of Annex 2 
and recognized as compliant following that item shall be deemed manufactured after 
being recognized as compliant following that item; 
12. Manufacturers shall conduct manufacturing and quality management or production 
management by applying the latest standard specifications determined by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety following Article 19 of the Act; 
13. Manufacturers shall thoroughly inspect the hygiene of employees and provide them with 
the education and training necessary for the production of medical devices with excellent 
quality; 
14. Manufacturers shall thoroughly conduct the affairs of post-marketing safety management, 
such as post-marketing surveillance, re-evaluation, management of medical devices 
subject to tracking management, and management of information regarding safety 
(including the management of reports on side effects); 
15. When manufacturers purchase medical devices manufactured by their company from 
medical institutions, they shall observe the following: 
(a) They shall inspect whether such medical devices are in compliance with the 
standards for manufacturing and quality management systems for medical devices 
under Subparagraph 2 of Annex 2 and release them with certificates of inspection 
attached thereto only if they comply with such standards; 
(b) They shall prepare and keep the records of the content and results of inspections 
under item (a), the dates of issued certificates of inspection, etc., and shall retain 
such records for 2 years from the relevant date of release. 
16. When manufacturers are requested to conduct inspections by medical device distributors 
or lessors following Subparagraph 1 (a) of Article 39, they shall observe the following: 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
32 
 
(a) They shall inspect whether medical devices are in compliance with the standards for 
manufacturing and quality management systems for medical devices under 
Subparagraph 2 of Annex 2 and issue certificates of inspection only if they comply 
with such standards; 
(b) They shall observe the matters determined and publicly notified by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety regarding the procedures and methods for issuing certificates 
of inspection, the period of reply, instructions about distribution or lease, etc. 
(2)  Manufacturers shall report the following matters to the Minister of Health and Welfare and the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety following Article 13 (2) of the Act as determined and 
publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety: <Amended on Apr. 13, 2020> 
1. 
Results of producing and exporting medical devices for the pertinent year; 
2. 
Reasons for and the amount and schedule of suspension of medical devices (limited to 
cases involving the suspension of the production of medical devices that have grave 
effects on public health where such devices is are publicly notified by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety after consultation with the Minister of Health and Welfare). 
 
Article 28 (Notification of Business Closure) (1) When a manufacturer intends to file a 
notification of business closure or business suspension following Article 14 of the Act, they shall 
submit a notification in Form 32 (including a notification in electronic form) to the Commissioner 
of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety having jurisdiction over the location of a 
manufacturing site, along with the following documents; and when a person who has suspended his 
or her business intends to file a notification of business resumption, he or she shall submit a 
notification in Form 32 (including a notification in electronic form) to the Commissioner of the 
Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety having jurisdiction over the location of the 
manufacturing site: <Amended on Apr. 13, 2020> 
1. 
In case of business closure: A manufacturing business license and all the manufacturing 
licenses and certificates: Provided, That when the relevant licenses or certificates are lost, 
a written reason for the loss shall be submitted; 
2. 
In case of business suspension: A manufacturing business license 
(2) When a manufacturer intends to file a notification of business closure or business suspension 
following Article 14 of the Act along with a notification of business closure or business 
suspension following Article 8 (7) of the Value-Added Tax Act, he or she shall submit to the 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety having jurisdiction over the 
location of a manufacturing site a notification in Form 32 (including a notification in 
electronic form), along with the documents under the classifications of each subparagraph of 
Paragraph (1) and a notification of business suspension and business closure in Form 9 of the 
Enforcement Rule of the Value-Added Tax Act. In such cases, the Commissioner of the 
Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety shall forward (including via an information and 
communications network; hereinafter, in this Article, the same shall apply) to the head of a tax 
office having jurisdiction over the location of a manufacturing site a notification of business 
suspension and business closure in Form 9 of the Enforcement Rule of the Value-Added Tax 
Act. <Newly inserted on Apr. 13, 2020> 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
33 
 
(3) Upon receipt of a notification of business closure under Paragraphs (1) and (2), the 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety shall enter such details in the 
manufacturing business approval register; and upon receipt of a notification of business 
suspension or resumption, they shall enter such details in the manufacturing business approval 
register and a manufacturing business license, respectively. <Amended on Apr. 13, 2020> 
(4) When the head of a tax office having jurisdiction over the location of a manufacturing site 
receives a notification of business closure or business suspension and forwards it to the head of 
the competent regional office of Food and Drug Safety following Article 13 of the 
Enforcement Decree of the Value-Added Tax Act, a notification of business closure or 
business suspension under Paragraph (1) shall be deemed submitted. <Amended on Apr. 13, 
2020> 
 
Article 29 (Application for Import Business Approval) (1) A person who intends to obtain 
import business approval for medical devices following Article 15 (1) of the Act shall submit the 
application in Form 1 (including an application in electronic form) to the Commissioner of the 
Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety having jurisdiction over the location of an import 
business, along with the documents referred to in the subparagraphs of Article 3 (1) (including 
electronic documents). 
(2)  Upon receipt of an application under Paragraph (1), the Commissioner of the Regional Office 
of Food and Drug Safety shall verify a corporation registration certificate (limited to a 
corporation) through administrative data matching under Article 36 (1) of the Electronic 
Government Act. 
 
Article 30 (Application for Importing Approval) (1) A person who intends to obtain import 
approval for medical devices following Article 15 (2) of the Act shall submit an application in Form 
3 (including an application in electronic form) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, along with 
the following documents (including electronic documents): 
1. 
Documents referred to in Article 5 (1) 2: Provided, That such documents may be omitted 
when it is evidenced that medical devices to be imported are the same products with the 
same origin of manufacture (referring to the same country of manufacture, manufacturing 
company, and manufacturing site), as medical devices already approved, as determined by 
the Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
2. 
Documents evidencing that a manufacturing site of medical devices to be imported has 
the Good Manufacturing Practices under Article 15 (4) of the Act. 
(2)  A person who intends to obtain importing certification for medical devices following Article 
15 (2) of the Act shall submit an application in Form 5 (including an application in electronic 
form) to the head of the NIDS, along with the documents referred to in the subparagraphs of 
Paragraph (1) (including electronic documents). In such cases, “approved” in the proviso of 
Paragraph (1) 1 shall be deemed “certified.” <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018> 
(3)  A person who intends to file an importing notification for medical devices following Article 15 
(2) of the Act shall submit a notification in Form 7 (including a notification in electronic form) 
to the head of the NIDS. <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018> 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
34 
 
 
Article 31 (Standards for Facilities and Manufacturing and Quality Management Systems for 
Quality Inspections) (1) A person who intends to obtain import business approval or who intends 
to obtain import approval or importing certification or file an importing notification following the 
main text of Article 15 (4) of the Act shall prepare the standards for the facilities and 
manufacturing and quality management systems as specified in Annex 4. 
(2)  “Cases prescribed by Ordinance of the Prime Minister, such as entrusting quality management 
testing” in the proviso of Article 15 (4) of the Act refers to when a person who intends to 
obtain import business approval, or who intends to obtain import approval or importing 
certification or file an importing notification entrusts quality management testing to any of the 
following persons. In such cases, such person need not be equipped with laboratories or testing 
facilities under Subparagraph 1 (c) of Annex 4: <Amended on May 1, 2017> 
1. 
A medical device testing and inspection institution; 1-2. An institution conducting non-
clinical studies; 
2. 
A manufacturer whose compliance has been recognized following Subparagraph 2 (f) of 
Annex 2. 
 
Article 32 (Exemption from Approval for Medical Device Import Businesses) (1) Medical 
devices that may be imported without obtaining import business approval, import approval, or 
importing certification or without filing an importing notification following Article 6 (10) of the Act 
applied mutatis mutandis according to Article 15 (6) of the Act shall be as follows. <Amended on 
Jun. 15, 2016; Jun. 14, 2018; Dec. 31, 2018; Jan. 16, 2024> 
1. 
A medical device subject to clinical investigations for which approval of a clinical 
investigation plan is granted under the text of Article 10 (1) of the Act; 
2. 
A separate medical device required for clinical investigations for which approval of a 
clinical investigation plan need not be granted under the proviso of Article 10 (1) of the 
Act; 
3. 
A separate medical device required for clinical trials regarding pharmaceuticals, etc. for 
which approval of a clinical trial protocol shall be granted under Article 34 (1) of the 
Pharmaceutical Affairs Act; 
3-2.  Medical devices separately required for conducting clinical trials of pharmaceuticals, etc. 
for which approval of the clinical trial protocol is not required pursuant to Article 34 (2) 
of the Pharmaceutical Affairs Act. 
4. 
A medical device imported to obtain import approval or certification of medical devices 
or to file an importing notification thereof; 
5. 
A medical device used for the purpose of research, such as product development; 
5-2. A medical device not for distribution, which is imported to help consumers purchase a 
product, such as checking the actual appearance of the product; 
5-3. A medical device imported to conduct testing and inspections under Article 27 of the Act; 
6. 
A medical device determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
35 
 
Safety, such as a medical device for self-use or for relief operations, etc.; 
7. 
Deleted. <Dec. 31, 2018> 
8. 
A medical device determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety which is used in clinical laboratories and deemed suitable by the Minister based on 
the evaluations of quality management systems, inspection performance and competence, 
etc. 
(2) Matters regarding the import procedures, subject matters, issuance of a certificate, etc. of 
medical devices excluded from those subject to import business approval and import approval, 
certification, or notification following Paragraph (1) shall be determined and publicly notified 
by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
 
Article 33 (Compliance for Importers) (1) Compliance obligations for a medical device importer 
under Article 13 (1) of the Act applied mutatis mutandis according to Article 15 (6) of the Act shall 
be as follows: <Amended on Dec. 4, 2020; Jan. 21, 2022; Oct. 31, 2025> 
1. 
The importer shall manage the facilities of an import business in a sanitary manner so as 
to not cause any harm to health or hygiene and shall prevent cross-contamination or 
contamination, etc. from the outside; 
2. 
The importer shall prepare and keep documents regarding the warehousing, release, and 
quality management of medical devices (including testing standards and methods, 
labeling, packaging, etc.) and management records on storage and shipment of accessories, 
and shall thoroughly conduct import and quality inspections based on such documents and 
records; 
3. 
The importer shall prepare and keep the records of import and quality inspections under 
Subparagraph 2 by import unit and the records of handling customers’ complaints, and 
shall retain such records for 5 years from the date of import (referring to a period 
corresponding to the product life cycle, where the product life cycle exceeds 5 years); 
4. 
The importer shall release products only after verifying that the products have been 
sterilized; 
5. 
The importer shall release electronic or mechanical products after ensuring their 
electronic, mechanical, and electromagnetic safety; 
6. 
The importer shall release products to come in direct or indirect contact with the human 
body after ensuring their biological safety; 
7. 
The importer shall prepare and keep product standards by item including the following 
matters: 
(a) The name of a medical device (the product name, item name, and model name); 
(b) The name of a manufacturing company of an imported medical device and the 
country of manufacture thereof; 
(c) Self-quality-management-test specifications of the shapes, structures, and finished 
products; 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
36 
 
(d) Matters to be stated on the container, etc. of a medical device, as prescribed in 
Articles 20 through 23 of the Act; 
(e) The method for and order of installation (limited to medical devices for which 
installation management is required); 
(f) Matters regarding sterilization methods and standards, and assessment (limited to 
medical devices applied with sterile packaging); 
(g) The presenter and presentation date of product standards (if revised, the reviser and 
date and cause of revision shall be stated); 
8. 
The importer shall prepare and keep import management standards, including the 
following matters: 
(a) Matters regarding product management and testing and inspections; 
(b) Matters regarding an assessment of the results of testing and inspections and the 
handling of rejected products; 
(c) Matters regarding the management of testing and inspection facilities; 
(d) Methods for contacting the manufacturer of an imported medical device; 
(e) Matters regarding the conditions of manufacture and quality management by a 
manufacturer of an imported medical device; 
(f) The presenter and presentation date of import management standards (if revised, 
the reviser and date and cause of revision shall be stated). 
9. 
The importer shall check whether an imported medical device has proper and correct 
labeling and packaging and prepare the records thereon; 
10. The importer shall inspect product storage facilities and prepare the records thereon; 
11. The importer shall ensure that a quality manager implements the following matters; 
(a) When complaints against the quality of released medical devices are filed, the 
quality manager shall prepare and implement the relevant procedures to identify the 
causes thereof and take corrective measures and prepare and retain such records; 
(b) The quality manager shall keep and use product standards and import management 
standards for proper quality management of imported medical devices; 
(c) The quality manager shall prepare work instructions based on documents under item 
(b) and inspect and check whether they are properly operated in compliance with the 
standards; 
12. The importer shall take corrective measures, such as recall, without delay when the safety 
and effectiveness of released medical devices are undermined or the quality thereof is 
poor; 
13. The importer shall formulate education plans to enable his or her employees to ensure the 
quality of imported medical devices, hold regular education and training sessions based 
on the plans, and prepare and retain records thereon; 
14. When the importer becomes aware of new data or information on the safety and 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
37 
 
effectiveness of a medical device approved, certified, or notified (including cases of side 
effects related to the use of the medical device), he or she shall report it and prepare the 
necessary safety measures as determined by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
15. For a manufacturing site of imported medical devices, the importer shall import and 
distribute medical devices manufactured in compliance with the standards specified in 
Subparagraph 3 of Annex 4. In such cases, medical devices imported for the purpose of 
the recognition of compliance under Subparagraph 3 of Annex 4 and recognized as 
compliant under that subparagraph shall be deemed imported after being recognized as 
compliant under that subparagraph; 
16. The importer shall comply with the guidelines for export and import of medical devices 
publicly announced by the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy under Article 12 of the 
Foreign Trade Act and regulations for management of imported medical devices 
determined by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
17. The importer shall apply the latest standard specifications determined by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety following Article 19 of the Act to maintain facilities and 
manufacturing and quality management systems, to import medical devices, and to 
conduct quality management or import management; 
18. The importer shall thoroughly perform the affairs of post-marketing safety management, 
including post-marketing surveillance, re-evaluation, management of medical devices 
subject to tracking management, and management of safety information (including 
management of reports on side effects); 
19. When the importer imports secondhand medical devices or purchases medical devices 
imported by his or her company from a medical institution, he or she shall observe the 
following: 
(a) He or she shall inspect whether the medical devices are in compliance with the test 
specifications referred to in Subparagraph 7 (c) and release them with certificates of 
inspection attached thereto only where they are in compliance with such 
specifications; 
(b) He or she shall prepare and keep the records of the details and results of inspections 
under item (a), the date of issuing certificates of inspection, etc. and retain such 
records for 2 years from the date of release; 
20. Where the importer is requested to conduct an inspection by a medical device distributor 
or lessor under Subparagraph 1 of Article 39, he or she shall observe the following: 
(a) He or she shall inspect whether the medical devices are in compliance with the 
standards specified in Subparagraph 2 of Annex 2 and issue certificates of inspection 
only where they are in compliance with such standards; 
(b) He or she shall comply with the matters determined and publicly notified by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety regarding the procedures and methods for issuing 
certificates of inspection, period of reply, instructions on distribution or lease, etc. 
(2)  An importer shall report to the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety the following matters as determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
38 
 
and Drug Safety under Article 13 (2) of the Act applied mutatis mutandis according to Article 
15 (6) of the Act: Provided, That such report on matters under Subparagraph 1 need not be 
filed when a standard customs clearance forecast report has been filed in an electronic trade 
document under the Electronic Trade Facilitation Act: <Amended on Apr. 13, 2020> 
1. 
Results of importing medical devices for the pertinent year; 
2. 
Reasons for and the amount and schedule of suspension of medical devices (limited to 
cases of suspension of the production of medical devices that have grave effects on public 
health where such devices are publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
after consultation with the Minister of Health and Welfare). 
 
Article 34 (Application Mutatis Mutandis) Articles 3 (3), Article 4, article 5 (2) through (7), 
Article 6 (2) and (3), Article 7 (2) and (3), Article 9, Article 11 through 13, Article 16 through 19, 
Article 25, Article 26 (excluding Article 26 (1) 1), Article 28, and Article 64 shall apply mutatis 
mutandis to importers and import items. In such cases, “manufacturing site” shall be construed as 
“import business facility,” “manufacturing” as “import," “Paragraph (1)” in Article 5 (4) as “Article 
30 (1),” “Article 27 (1)” in Article 12 (1) 9 as “Article 33 (1),” “import” in Article 12 (3) 2 as 
“manufacturing,” “Article 5 (1) 2” in Article 16 (2) as “Article 30 (1) 1,” and “Article 5 (1) 2” in 
Article 16 (3) as “Article 30 (1) 1”, respectively. <Amended Jul. 29, 2016; May 1, 2017> 
 
Article 34-2 (Method for Supplying Orphan Medical Devices or Those in Urgent Need of 
Introduction) (1) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety intends to supply orphan medical 
devices or those in urgent need of introduction under Article 15-2 (1), with the exception of its 
subparagraphs, of the Act (hereinafter “orphan medical devices or those in urgent need of 
introduction”), he or she shall conduct surveys on demand thereof from the relevant administrative 
agencies, medical institutions, health and medical service-related institutions, organizations and 
experts, patients, etc. 
(2) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety conducts surveys on demand under Paragraph (1), 
they shall establish quarterly, semi-annual, and annual plans to supply orphan medical devices 
or those in urgent need of introduction, including the following matters: 
1. 
Matters regarding supply quantities; 
2. 
Matters regarding supply prices; 
3. 
Matters regarding supply targets; 
4. 
Other matters deemed necessary by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety to supply 
orphan medical devices or those in urgent need of introduction. 
(3) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety intends to supply orphan medical devices or those 
in urgent need of introduction according to the supply plans under Paragraph (2), he or she 
shall conclude a supply contract with a supply target. 
(4) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (3), details necessary for methods for supplying 
orphan medical devices or those in urgent need of introduction shall be determined and 
publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
39 
 
[Newly inserted on Jun. 12, 2019] 
 
Article 34-3 (Entrustment of the Supply of Orphan Medical Devices or Those in Urgent Need 
of Introduction) (1) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall entrust the affairs related to the 
supply of orphan medical devices or those in urgent need of introduction and the provision of 
relevant information to the NIDS under Article 15-2 (2) of the Act. 
(2)  The NIDS entrusted with the affairs of orphan medical devices or those in urgent need of 
introduction under Paragraph (1) shall submit to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety a 
business operation plan, a fund operation plan, an update on business progress, fund execution 
details, etc. regarding the entrusted affairs as determined by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety. 
[Newly inserted on Jun. 12, 2019] 
 
Article 35 (Notification of Repair Businesses) (1) A person who intends to engage in the 
business of repairing medical devices under Article 16 (1) of the Act shall submit a notification 
for repair businesses in Form 33 (including a notification in electronic form), along with the 
documents referred to in Article 3 (1) 1 and 2 (including electronic documents) to the Special 
Metropolitan City Mayor, a Metropolitan City Mayor, a Do Governor, or a Self-Governing 
Province Governor (hereinafter the “Mayor/Do Governor”) having jurisdiction over the location of 
a repair business. In such cases, the Mayor/Do Governor shall verify a corporation registration 
certificate (limited to a corporation) through the administrative data matching under Article 36 (1) 
of the Electronic Government Act. <Amended Apr. 13, 2020; Jun. 24, 2021> 
(2) Upon acceptance of a repair business notification following Paragraph (1), the Mayor/Do 
Governor shall issue a certificate of notification in Form 34 to a person who files such 
notification, and enter the following information in the repair business notification register: 
<Amended on Jun. 24, 2021> 
1. 
The notification acceptance number and acceptance date; 
2. 
Types of medical devices to be repaired; 
3. 
The name and resident registration number of the repairer (in cases of a corporation, the 
name and resident registration number of its representative); 
4. 
The name and location of the repair business (in cases of a corporation, the location of its 
principal office). 
(3) When a repairer intends to modify the notified matters, he or she shall submit a notification for 
change in Form 35 (including a notification in electronic form) to the Mayor/Do Governor 
having jurisdiction over the repair business place, along with reasons for such change, 
evidentiary documents therefor (including electronic documents), and the certificate of 
notification. In such cases, when the change of a location changes the competent notification-
receiving authority, he or she shall submit the requirements to the Mayor/Do Governor having 
jurisdiction over the new location. <Amended on Jun. 24, 2021> 
(4) Facilities and quality management systems to be secured by a person intending to file a 
notification of a repair business under the main text of Article 16 (2) of the Act shall be as 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
40 
 
specified in Annex 5. 
(5) When a repairer closes or suspends his or her business under Article 14 of the Act applied 
mutatis mutandis according to Article 16 (4) of the Act, he or she shall submit a notification in 
Form 32 (including a notification in electronic form), along with the certificate of notification, 
to the Mayor/Do Governor having jurisdiction over the repair business place. When a person 
who has suspended their business files a notification for business resumption, he or she shall 
submit a notification in Form 32 (including a notification in electronic form) to the 
Mayor/Do Governor having jurisdiction over the repair business place. <Amended Apr. 13, 
2020, Jun. 24, 2021> 
(6) Upon receipt of a notification under Paragraph (3) or (5), the Mayor/Do Governor shall enter 
the notification details in the relevant notification register and the certificate of notification, 
respectively. <Amended on Jun. 24, 2021> 
(7) Article 28 (2) and (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis to a notification of business closure or 
business suspension under Paragraph (5). In such cases, “the Commissioner of the Regional 
Office of Food and Drug Safety” shall be construed as “the Mayor/Do Governor.” <Amended 
on Apr. 13, 2020, Jun. 24, 2021> 
 
Article 36 (Compliance for Repairers) Compliance obligations for repairers of medical devices 
under Article 13 of the Act applied mutatis mutandis according to Article 16 (4) of the Act shall be 
as follows: <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018> 
1. 
They shall not repair a medical device by making alterations inconsistent with the 
details approved, certified, or notified. This shall not apply to a minor repair for change 
under Article 46-2; 
2. 
They shall state the trade name and address on the container or wrapper of a medical 
device where such device is repaired; 
3. 
They shall notify a person who requests the repair of a medical device of the repair details 
in writing (in cases of a minor repair for change under Article 46-2, the details of such 
repair for change shall be included); 
4. 
They shall maintain facilities and quality management systems under Article 35 (4). 
 
Article 37 (Notification of Distribution Business or Leasing Business) (1) A person who intends 
to engage in the business of distributing or leasing medical devices under Article 17 (1) of the Act 
shall submit a notification in Form 36 (including a notification in electronic form) to the Special 
Self-Governing Province Governor or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu (the head of a Gu refers to the head 
of an autonomous Gu; hereinafter the same shall apply) having jurisdiction over the distribution or 
leasing business place. In such cases, the Special Self-Governing Province Governor or the head of 
a Si/Gun/Gu shall verify a corporation registration certificate (limited to a corporation) through 
administrative data matching under Article 36 (1) of the Electronic Government Act. <Amended 
Apr. 13. 2020; Jun. 24., 2021> 
(2) A person who intends to engage in the business of selling medical devices pursuant to Article 
17 (1) of the Act and intends to sell medical devices through electronic commerce or mail 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
41 
 
order in accordance with the Act on the Consumer Protection in Electronic Commerce may use, 
as a place of business, a building for residential use under the Building Act or a business 
incubation center under Article 18-3 (1) of the Special Measures for the Promotion of Venture 
Businesses. <Newly Inserted on Jul. 8, 2024> 
(3) Upon acceptance of a notification of a medical device distribution or leasing business under 
Paragraph (1), the Special Self-Governing Province Governor or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu shall 
issue the certificate of notification in Form 37 and enter the following information in the 
distribution or leasing business notification register: <Amended on Apr. 13, 2020; Jul. 8, 
2024> 
1. 
The notification number and notification date; 
2. 
The name and resident registration number of the medical device distributor or lessor (in 
cases of a corporation, the name and resident registration number of its representative); 
3. 
The name and location of the business place. 
(4) When a distributor or lessor modifies the matters notified following Paragraph (1), he or she 
shall submit a notification of change in Form 38 (including a notification in electronic form), 
along with the certificate of notification and documents verifying such change, to the Special 
Self-Governing Province Governor or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu having jurisdiction over the 
distribution or leasing business place. In such cases, when the change of a location changes the 
competent notification-receiving authority, he or she shall submit the requirements to the 
Mayor/Do Governor having jurisdiction over the new location. <Amended on Apr. 13, 2020; 
Jul. 8, 2024> 
(5) When a distributor or lessor intends to file a notification of business closure or business 
suspension, he or she shall submit a notification in Form 32 (including a notification in 
electronic form), along with the certificate of notification to the Special Self-Governing 
Province Governor or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu having jurisdiction over the distribution or 
leasing business place; and when a person who has suspended his or her business intends to 
file a notification of business resumption, he or she shall submit a notification in Form 32 
(including a notification in electronic form) to the Special Self-Governing Province Governor 
or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu having jurisdiction over the distribution or leasing business place. 
<Amended on Apr. 13, 2020; Jul. 8, 2024> 
(6) Upon receipt of a notification under Paragraph (3) or (4), the Special Self-Governing 
Province Governor or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu shall enter the notification details in the 
relevant notification register and the certificate of notification, respectively. <Amended on Apr. 
13, 2020; Jul. 8, 2024> 
(7) Article 28 (2) and (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis to a notification of business suspension or 
business closure under Paragraph (4). In such cases, the “Commissioner of the Regional Office 
of Food and Drug Safety” shall be construed as the “Special Self-Governing Province 
Governor or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu.” <Amended on Apr. 13, 2020; Jul. 8, 2024> 
 
Article 38 (Exemption from Distribution Business Notifications) Any of the following medical 
devices may be distributed without filing a notification under Article 17 (2) 4 of the Act: 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
42 
 
1. 
Condoms; 
2. 
Mobile phones, household electric appliances, etc., which have blood a feature of 
glucose monitoring or blood glucose monitoring devices used in combination therewith; 
3. 
Other medical devices publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
considering the degree of harm and safety. 
 
Article 39 (Method for Ensuring Quality of Medical Devices by Distributor or Lessor) The 
method for ensuring the quality of medical devices under Article 18 (1) of the Act and 
Subparagraph 1 of Article 10-2 of the Enforcement Decree of the Medical Devices Act (hereinafter 
the “Decree”) shall be as follows: <Amended on Jun. 15, 2016> 
1. 
When a distributor or lessor purchases medical devices from a medical institution, he or 
she shall comply with the following matters: 
(a) The distributor or lessor shall request the manufacturer or importer of the relevant 
medical devices for inspections or request a medical device testing and inspection 
institution for inspections; 
(b) The distributor or lessor shall distribute or lease only the medical devices that have 
received certificates of inspection issued following Article 27 (1) 15 (a) or 33 (1) 19 
(a) according to the results of the inspections under item (a); 
(c) When the distributor or lessor receives any instructions regarding distribution or 
lease following Article 27 (1) 16 (b) or 33 (1) 20 (b) according to the results of the 
inspections under item (a), he or she shall comply with such instructions. 
2. 
A distributor or lessor shall prepare the records of the details and results of an inspection 
under each item of Subparagraph 1, the issuer and issuance date of a certificate of 
inspection, instructions regarding distribution or lease, etc. and retain such records for 2 
years from the date of distribution; 
3. 
A distributor or lessor shall prepare and keep the records regarding the handling of 
defective medical devices and retain such records for 1 year from the date of the record; 
4. 
A distributor or lessor shall comply with the standards for distribution quality 
management of medical devices specified in Annex 6: Provided, That this shall not apply 
when the business is exempted from distribution business notification requirements under 
Article 17 (2) of the Act. 
 
Article 40 (Matters Regarding Maintenance of Order in Distribution by Distributor or Lessor) 
Matters regarding the maintenance of order in distribution in relation to the safety of medical 
devices, etc. under Article 18 (1) of the Act and Subparagraph 1 of Article 10-2 of the Decree shall 
be as follows: 
1. 
A distributor or lessor shall not purchase medical devices from persons other than 
manufacturers, importers, and distributors: Provided, That purchases from a medical 
institution shall be excluded; 
2. 
A distributor or lessor shall not use any of the following names or labels for the name, etc. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
43 
 
of a business place and shall not use them together with the label of the business place; 
(a) A name or label likely to be misunderstood as a business place of a manufacturer or 
an importer; 
(b) The name of a medical institution under Article 3 of the Medical Service Act or any 
name similar thereto. 
3. 
A distributor or lessor shall not distribute or lease any of the following medical devices 
and shall not store or display them for the purpose of distribution or lease: 
(a) Medical devices with no certificates of inspection attached under Subparagraph 1 (b) 
of Article 39; 
(b) Medical devices contaminated or damaged or those subject to an order of 
collection or destruction issued by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety; 
(c) Medical devices whose use-by dates or expiration dates passed. 
4. 
A distributor or lessor shall not distribute medical devices for which approval or 
certification has not been obtained or a notification has not been filed and shall not store 
or display them for the purpose of distribution. 
 
Article 41 (Exemption from Certificates of Inspection of Secondhand Medical Devices) 
Medical devices determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, such as 
medical devices with low potential risk, may be distributed with no certificate of inspection 
attached, notwithstanding Articles 27 (1) 15 and 33 (1) 19, Subparagraph 1 (b) of Article 39, and 
Subparagraph 3 (a) of Article 40. 
 
Article 42 (Labeling on Container) The container or wrapper of a medical device need not be 
labeled following the proviso of Article 20, with the exception of its subparagraphs, of the Act, in 
any of the following cases: <Amended on Jun. 15, 2016> 
1. 
When the area of the container or wrapper is too small, or the container or wrapper 
cannot contain all the matters referred to in the subparagraphs of Article 20 of the Act, 
and therefore, such matters are stated on an outside container, outside package, or 
package insert: Provided, That even in such cases, the model name or the trade name of a 
manufacturer or importer shall be stated on the container or wrapper of a medical device; 
2. 
When a medical device for export has been labeled according to the standards of the 
export destination country. 
 
Article 43 (Labeling on Package Inserts) (1) "Matters prescribed by Ordinance of the Prime 
Minister" in Article 22 (1) 4 of the Act refers to the following: <Amended on Jan. 16, 2024> 
1. 
The matters prescribed in Subparagraphs 1 through 3 and 5 through 7 of Article 20 of the 
Act; 
2. 
The intended use of a product; 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
44 
 
3. 
Keeping or storage methods; 
4. 
 
The trade names and addresses of a person requesting manufacture (referring to the 
person who entrusts) and a manufacturer (referring to the person to whom it is entrusted) 
when a domestic manufacturer entrusts the entire manufacturing processes; 
5. 
A model name and the name of a manufacturing business labeled on a minimum unit 
package, for devices individually packaged for single use; 
6. 
Information regarding appropriate procedures for reuse, such as cleaning, disinfection, 
packaging, re-sterilization methods, and the limit on the number of times of reuse, in 
cases of medical devices reusable after sterilization; 
7. 
Matters regarding the characteristics, types, intensity, diffusion, etc. of radiation, in cases 
of medical devices emitting radiation for the purpose of medical treatment; 
8. 
The date of the preparation of package inserts; 
9. 
Contact for adverse event reporting (National Institute of Medical Device Safety 
Information, Contact Information) 
10. Other matters regarding technical information, such as characteristics of medical devices. 
(2) The following shall be stated in the package insert of a medical device for clinical 
investigations, notwithstanding Paragraph (1): 
1. 
The label “For Clinical investigations”; 
2. 
The product name and model name; 
3. 
The manufacturing number and manufacturing date (which may be replaced with the use-
by date, if any); 
4. 
Keeping and storage methods; 
5. 
The trade name of a manufacturer or an importer (in cases of entrusted manufacturing 
or import, including the origin of manufacture and country name); 
6. 
The label “Not Approved for Use for Purposes Other than Clinical Investigations”. 
(3) When the matters prescribed in Paragraph (1) 1 through 5 and 9 are stated on a container, 
wrapper, or package, the package insert may not include such labeling. <Amended on Jan. 16, 
2024> 
 
Article 44 (Labeling Methods) (1) Following Article 23 of the Act, the container, wrapper, 
outside container, package, or package insert of a medical device shall be labeled according to the 
following methods: <Amended on Jun 24, 2021> 
1. 
A label shall be provided in Korean alphabet hangeul, and a label in Chinese characters or 
other foreign languages in the same font size as that of Hangeul may be added: Provided, 
That a label need not be provided in hangeul in the following cases: 
(a) Providing a label on a medical device for export in the language of an export 
destination country; 
(b) Stating the items which were written in foreign languages in the process of medical 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
45 
 
device approval, certification, or notification in the same foreign language. 
2. 
Font size, line height, and other labeling methods determined and publicly notified by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall be followed. 
(2)  When the name of a product, the trade name of a manufacturer or importer, or other matters 
are stated on the container, outer package, or package of a medical device, braille may be 
used in conjunction with the labeling methods under Paragraph (1). 
 
Article 44-2 (Provision of Information for Persons with Visual Impairments) Medical devices 
for which the Minister of Food and Drug Safety may recommend the acts prescribed in each 
subparagraph of Article 23-2 (1) of the Act shall be limited to self-use medical devices for the 
management of chronic diseases. 
[Newly Inserted on Aug. 7, 2024] 
 
Article 45 (Scope of Medical Device Advertisements) (1) The scope of advertisements prohibited 
under Article 24 (2) and (3) of the Act shall be any of the following advertisements specified in 
Annex 7: 
1. 
Advertisements under Subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act on Fair Labeling and Advertising; 
2. 
Advertisements through methods such as solicitation of purchase and product presentation 
and demonstration by a medical device handler (including workers, etc. employed by the 
medical device handler). 
[Wholly Amended on Jun. 24, 2021] 
 
Article 45-2 (Objection to Results of Redeliberation by a Voluntary Deliberation Agency) A 
person who intends to file an objection to the results of the re-deliberation by a voluntary 
deliberation agency (referring to an institution or organization that has reported to the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety following Article 25-2 (1); hereinafter the same shall apply) under Article 25 
(5) of the Act and Article 10-4 (4) of the Decree shall submit an application for objection to the 
results of re-deliberation on medical device advertisements in Form 38-2 to the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety, along with the following documents: 
1. 
Purport and reasons for objection; 
2. 
Content of an application for deliberation on the advertisement of medical devices; 
3. 
A copy of the notice of the results of deliberation or re-deliberation on the advertisement 
of medical devices; 
4. 
Other references verifying the factuality, etc. of an application for deliberation on the 
advertisement. 
[Newly inserted on Jun. 24, 2021] 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
46 
 
Article 45-3 (Notification and Monitoring of Voluntary Deliberation Agency) (1) A person who 
intends to notify deliberation on the advertisement of medical devices under Article 25-2 (1) of the 
Act and Article 10-5 (4) of the Decree shall submit an application for the notification of a voluntary 
deliberation agency for the advertisement of medical devices to the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety, along with the following documents. In such cases, the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
shall verify the corporation registration certificate (limited to a corporation) through administrative 
data matching under Article 36 (1) of the Electronic Government Act: <Amended on Jan. 21, 
2022> 
1. 
Status of a department and full-time workers that are exclusively responsible for relevant 
affairs under Article 10-5 (3) 1 of the Decree; 
2. 
Status of computerized equipment and an office under Article 10-5 (3) 2 of the Decree; 
3. 
A copy of the articles of association of the institution or organization; 
4. 
A copy of the registration of a consumer organization made with the Fair Trade 
Commission under Article 29 of the Framework Act On Consumers (limited to cases 
under Article 25-2 (1) 2). 
(2)  A voluntary deliberation agency shall monitor whether an advertisement of medical devices 
that it has reviewed complies with Article 24 (2) or (3) under Article 25-4, and submit the 
results thereof to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety for each quarter within 30 days from 
the end of the pertinent quarter. 
[Newly inserted on Jun. 24, 2021] 
 
Article 45-4 (Medical Devices Subject to Sealing) (1) “Medical devices prescribed by Ordinance 
of the Prime Minister” in Article 25-5, with the exception of its subparagraphs, of the Act refers to 
any of the following medical devices: 
1. 
Medical devices that are subject to tracking management are to be inserted into the 
human body for at least 1 year, and have sterile packaging; 
2. 
The following medical devices that are likely to be contaminated or spoiled when 
distributed while being open: 
(a) Disposable syringes (limited to those with sterile packaging); 
(b) Disposable needles (limited to those with sterile packaging); 
(c) Sutures; 
(d) Wound dressings (limited to those with sterile packaging); 
(e) Contact lenses; 
(f) Other medical devices with sterile packaging, which are publicly notified by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety that such devices need to be enveloped during 
distribution. 
(2)  The seal under Article 25-5 shall ensure that a container or package cannot be opened without 
removing the seal thereon and is difficult to return to its original condition after being opened. 
[Newly inserted on Jan. 21, 2022] 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
47 
 
 
Article 46 (Approval for Display of Medical Devices for the Purpose of Exhibition) (1) A 
person who intends to display medical devices for the purpose of exhibition under the proviso of 
Article 26 (1) of the Act shall obtain approval therefor from the Commissioner of the Regional 
Office of Food and Drug Safety in advance. 
(2) A person who intends to display medical devices approved under Paragraph (1) shall not 
engage in acts other than those determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety, such as the simple operation of devices to explain the utilization methods, etc. 
and attachment or keeping of promotional materials regarding the notified details. 
(3) When medical devices approved under Paragraph (1) fall under any of the following cases, the 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety shall revoke such approval, and 
may take measures including the enveloping or sealing of the relevant medical devices or the 
suspension of the display thereof: 
1. 
When medical devices are displayed or used differently from what have been approved; 
2. 
When acts other than those approved under Paragraph (2) are performed; 
3. 
When other acts likely to cause harm to public health are performed. 
(4) After the certified medical devices under Paragraph (1) are used following their certification, 
the relevant medical devices may be used as medical devices under Subparagraph 4 of Article 
10, Article 32 (1) 5-2 and 5-3 as determined and publicly noticed by the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety. <Newly inserted on Jun. 24, 2021> 
(5) Details regarding methods and procedures for filing an application for approval under 
Paragraph (1), approval standards, and other matters shall be determined and publicly notified 
by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. <Amended on Jun. 24, 2021> 
 
Article 46-2 (Minor Repair for Change of Medical Devices) A medical device repairer may make 
repairs to change any of the following appearances within the extent not to affect the safety and 
effectiveness of the medical devices under the proviso of Article 26 (3) of the Act: 
1. 
Repairs to change the colors, materials, etc. of outer packages aimed at protecting the 
medical devices from external shock; 
2. 
Repairs to change the shapes, structures, etc. of external appearances, such as holders, 
handles, or wheels, not directly related to the performance of medical devices. 
[Newly inserted on Jun. 14, 2018] 
 
Article 47 (Scope of Approval to Alter or Remodel Medical Devices) Medical devices that 
manufacturers and importers may alter or remodel under Article 26 (4) 1 of the Act shall be as 
follows. In such cases, such medical devices shall be altered or remodeled to the extent not to 
change the unique characteristics but to improve the performance thereof: 
1. 
Radiation-generating devices for diagnosis under Article 37 of the Medical Service Act; 
2. 
Special medical equipment under Article 38 of the Medical Service Act; 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
48 
 
3. 
Other medical devices determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety, whose safety and effectiveness are not affected by alteration or remodeling. 
 
Article 48 (Designation of Quality Management System Audit Organization) (1) A person who 
intends to apply for the designation of an institution as an audit organization under Article 28 (2) of 
the Act shall submit an application for the designation as an audit organization in Form 39 
(including an application in electronic form) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, along with the 
following documents (including electronic documents): 
1. 
The current status of an audit organization in terms of its organization and personnel 
(referring to documents evidencing personnel’s qualifications and work experience); 
2. 
Documents regarding management and operational standards for quality review affairs; 
3. 
Documents regarding the scope of quality review affairs. 
(2) When an audit organization is designated based on the results of the examination of documents 
submitted under Paragraph (1) and the fact-finding surveys on quality review capabilities, the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall issue a certificate of designation as an audit 
organization in Form 40. 
(3) In cases of change of any of the following matters, a quality management review institution 
designated under Paragraph (2) shall submit an application for change of the designated 
matters of an audit organization in Form 41 (including an application in electronic form), along 
with the certificate of designation as an audit organization and data verifying the changed 
matters (including electronic documents), to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety within 30 
days from the date reasons for such change occur: 
1. 
The representative of the audit organization; 
2. 
The name and location of the audit organization; 
3. 
The scope of quality review affairs. 
(4) Matters to be observed by an audit organization under Article 28 (4) of the Act shall be as 
follows: 
1. 
The organization shall retain for 5 years the records on quality review, such as copies of 
compliance certificates and all review data regarding the issuance of compliance 
certificates; 
2. 
The organization shall report on the results of the quality review as determined by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
3. 
The organization shall comply with the management and operational standards for audit 
organizations, which are determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety; 
4. 
The organization shall maintain the requirements for the designation as an audit 
organization under Article 28 (3) of the Act; 
5. 
The organization shall comply with other matters determined and publicly notified by 
the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, such as matters to be stated by an audit 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
49 
 
organization when issuing compliance certificates. 
(5) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety may conduct a regular or occasional investigation into 
an audit organization. 
(6) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (5), details necessary for the procedures and 
methods for designating an audit organization, operation thereof, etc. shall be determined and 
publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
 
Article 49 (Standards for the Designation and Management of Medical Devices Subject to 
Tracking Management) (1) Medical devices subject to tracking management under the 
subparagraphs of Article 29 (1) of the Act shall be as follows: 
1. 
The following medical devices to be inserted into the human body for at least 1 year: 
(a) Implantable cardiac pacemakers; 
(b) Implantable cardiac pacemaker electrodes; 
(c) Composite artificial heart valves; 
(d) Biological artificial heart valves; 
(e) Non-biological artificial heart valves; 
(f) Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs); 
(g) Electrically-powered implantable infusion pumps; 
(h) Other medical devices determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety as necessary to track the locations of such devices. 
2. 
The following medical devices for life support used in any place other than a medical 
institution: 
(a) Home care ventilators (limited to regular wearing); 
(b) Other medical devices determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety as necessary to track the locations of such devices. 
(2)  When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety permits the manufacture, import, etc. of 
medical devices subject to tracking management under Paragraph (1), he or she shall 
state in the license the phrase “Medical Device Subject to Tracking Management.” 
 
Article 49-2 (Criteria for Designation of Medical Devices Subject to Long-term Follow-up) (1) 
The Minister of Food and Drug Safety may designate medical devices subject to long-term follow-
up under Article 29 (2) of the Act (hereinafter referred to as “medical devices subject to long-term 
follow-up”) by comprehensively reviewing the following matters: 
1. 
Whether adverse events associated with the use of the medical device occur at least once 
a year, thereby requiring continuous verification of the device’s safety; 
2. 
Whether the device is likely to cause serious adverse effects, such as death or non-curable 
conditions, after being implanted in the human body; 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
50 
 
3. 
Any other matters equivalent to those under subparagraphs 1 and 2, which the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety deems necessary for reviewing the designation of medical devices 
subject to long-term follow-up . 
(2)  When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety designates medical devices subject to long-term 
follow-up pursuant to paragraph (1), the Minister shall publicly announce such designation. 
[Newly inserted on Aug. 1, 2025] 
 
Article 50 (Matters regarding Records on Medical Devices Subject to Tracking Management) 
(1) Manufacturers, importers, distributors, lessors, and repairers who handle medical devices under 
Article 30 (1) of the Act (hereinafter “handlers”) and the founders of medical institutions that 
handle medical devices subject to tracking management, and medical doctors, oriental medical 
doctors, dentists, etc. who work at medical institutions (hereinafter “users”) shall prepare records of 
the following matters: <Amended on Aug. 1, 2025> 
1. 
Records of handlers: 
(a) The quantity and date of manufacture or import (limited to manufacturers or 
importers) by product name (by item name, in the absence of the product name), by 
model name, and by manufacture unit; 
(b) The quantity and date of distribution or lease; the trade name and address of a 
distributor or lessor or the founder of a medical institution (excluding repairers) by 
product name (by item name, in the absence of the product name), by model name, 
and by manufacture unit; 
(c) The date of repair and the trade name and address of a requester (limited to repairers) 
by product name (by item name, in the absence of the product name), by model 
name, and by manufacture unit; 
(d) Other matters necessary to prevent harm to health and hygiene; 
2. 
Records of users: 
(a) The name and resident registration number of a patient who uses a medical device 
subject to tracking management; 
(b) The name and manufacturing number of a medical device subject to tracking 
management, and those in lieu thereof; 
(c) The date of use of a medical device subject to tracking management; 
(d) The name and location of a medical institution that uses a medical device subject to 
tracking management; 
(e) Other matters necessary to prevent harm to health and hygiene. 
(2) Handlers or users of medical devices subject to tracking management shall submit records and 
data related to the medical devices subject to tracking management to the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety according to the following classifications. In such cases, such handlers or users 
may submit such records and data using a computer program determined by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety: <Newly inserted on Jun. 15, 2016; Jun. 24, 2021; Aug. 1, 2025> 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
51 
 
1. 
Handlers: Handlers shall prepare records and data related to medical devices subject to 
tracking management every month and submit such records and data by the end of the 
following month as determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety; 
2. 
Users: 
(a) In cases of business closure of a medical institution, users shall submit the entire 
record of use when filing a notification of business closure; 
(b) In cases of medical devices subject to tracking management publicly notified by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety that may cause death or are gravely life-
threatening, users shall submit data for each half year by the end of the following 
month of the end of the pertinent half year. Provided, however, that if data on real-
world use information (referring to real-world use information under Article 30 (3) 
of the Act; hereinafter the same shall apply) have been submitted pursuant to Article 
50-2 (2) and (3), the relevant data may be omitted from submission; 
(c) Upon receipt of a request by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety to submit records 
and data related to medical devices subject to tracking management, users shall 
submit such records and data within 10 days from the date of receipt of such request. 
(3) When handlers and users of medical devices subject to tracking management prepare records 
under Paragraph (1), they shall maintain confidentiality. 
(4) Records of medical devices subject to tracking management under Paragraph (1) shall be 
retained until the time determined by the following subparagraphs: 
1. 
When a medical device subject to tracking management is no longer used because of the 
death, etc. of a patient who has used such medical device; 
2. 
When the reasons to retain the previous records of a non-single-use medical device 
subject to tracking management cease to exist as the information thereon under Paragraph 
(1) 2 (a) or (c) is newly recorded; 
3. 
When the reasons to retain the relevant records cease to exist, as tracking management 
is no longer necessary or any other reason occurs. 
(5) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety may create and operate unique device identification 
(UDI) codes to be attached to or labeled on the containers, outer packages, or packages of 
medical devices subject to tracking management for efficient management of medical devices 
subject to tracking management. 
(6) Details regarding records by handlers or users of medical devices subject to tracking 
management under Paragraphs (1) and (2) and the submission of such records shall be 
determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. <Newly inserted on 
Jun. 24, 2021> 
 
Article 50-2 (Methods and Procedures for the Collection, Analysis, and Evaluation of Real-
World Use Information) (1) The head of the NIDS entrusted with the duties of collecting, 
analyzing, and evaluating real-world use information pursuant to Article 44 (2) of the Act may 
recruit users to participate in long-term follow-up (hereinafter referred to as “participants”) in order 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
52 
 
to collect, analyze, and evaluate real-world use information pursuant to Article 30 (3) of the Act. 
(2)  The data submitted by participants who respond to the recruitment under paragraph (1) to the 
head of the NIDS pursuant to Article 30 (3) of the Act shall consist of the following real-world 
use information generated in the process of using medical devices subject to long-term follow-
up: 
1. 
The name and resident registration number of the patient using the medical device subject 
to long-term follow-up; 
2. 
The name and manufacturing number of the medical device subject to long-term follow-
up, or information in lieu thereof; 
3. 
The date and time of use of the medical device subject to long-term follow-up, and the 
details of such use; 
4. 
The date and time of occurrence of any adverse event and its details; 
5. 
The name and location of the medical institution where the device is used; 
6. 
Other matters deemed necessary by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety for long-term 
follow-up and publicly notified by the Minister. 
(3)  When submitting data on real-world use information under paragraph (2) to the head of the 
NIDS, participants may do so using a computerized program designated by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety. 
(4)  The head of the NIDS shall analyze and evaluate the data on real-world use information 
submitted by participants pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (3) on a semiannual basis and report 
the results to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety by the end of the month following the end 
of each half-year. However, in any of the following cases, the results of the analysis and 
evaluation shall be reported without delay: 
1. 
Where the frequency of adverse events significantly differs from that in previously 
reported analysis and evaluation results; 
2. 
Where the details of the adverse event fall under any of the subparagraphs of Article 51 
(1); 
3. 
Any other case equivalent to subparagraphs 1 and 2, where the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety considers it necessary to analyze and evaluate the adverse event without delay and 
requests such analysis and evaluation. 
(5)  In addition to the matters prescribed in paragraphs (1) through (4), detailed matters concerning 
the methods and procedures for the collection, analysis, and evaluation of real-world use 
information shall be prescribed and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
[Newly inserted on Aug. 1, 2025] 
 
Article 51 (Reporting on Side Effects) (1) A person who intends to file a report on the side effects 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
53 
 
of a medical device under Article 31 (1) of the Act shall do so as prescribed in the following 
subparagraphs and retain the relevant data for two years: 
1. 
Within 7 days, when a medical device causes death or life-threatening side effects. In 
such cases, the details thereof shall be additionally reported within eight days from the 
date of the first report; 
2. 
Within 15 days, when the following side effects are caused or adverse events occur: 
(a) When admission to a hospital or the extension of an admission period is required; 
(b) When recovery is impossible or a serious disability or impaired function occurs; 
(c) When congenital malformations or abnormalities are caused. 
(2) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall notify the founder of a medical institution of the 
side effects, a recall plan, etc. under Article 31 (4) of the Act by means of visit, mail, telephone, 
email, fax, etc. 
(3) The founder of a medical institution who has notified patients of the side effects, recall plan, 
etc. under Article 31 (5) of the Act shall prepare a written confirmation of notice to the patients 
in Form 42 and submit it to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. <Amended on Jun. 14, 
2018> 
(4) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (3), details regarding the reporting and 
management of side effects shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety. 
 
Article 52 (Standards and Procedures for the Recall of Harmful Medical Devices) (1) With 
respect to any medical device that has caused, or is likely to cause, harm to the human body among 
the medical devices repaired, distributed, or leased (hereinafter “medical device subject to recall”), 
the relevant medical device repairer, distributor, or lessor shall immediately cease repairing, 
distributing, or leasing such medical device following Article 31 (2) of the Act and notify such fact 
to the manufacturer or importer of such medical device (hereinafter “person responsible for recall”). 
(2) Following Article 31 (2) of the Act, with respect to medical devices that a person responsible 
for recall has distributed or leased after manufacturing or importing such devices, such person 
responsible for recall shall verify whether any medical device suspected to be subject to recall 
or any medical device notified under Paragraph (1) falls under any of the following: 
1. 
A medical device of which use causes grave irreversible side effects or death, or a 
medical device that is likely to cause such side effects or death; 
2. 
A medical device of which use causes reversible temporary or medical side effects, or 
a medical device that is likely to cause such side effects; 
3. 
A medical device which, when used, rarely causes side effects, but is problematic in 
terms of safety and effectiveness for failing to satisfy the standard specifications referred 
to in Article 19 of the Act. 
(3) With respect to any medical device found to be falling under any subparagraph of Paragraph (2) 
based on the results of verification under Paragraph (2), a person responsible for recall 
shall take measures, such as immediately ceasing the distribution of the relevant medical 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
54 
 
device, and submit a recall plan in Form 43 (including a plan in electronic form) to the 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety having jurisdiction over 
the location of the person responsible for recall business within 5 days from the date of 
verification under Paragraph (2). In such cases, the person responsible for recall may submit 
a recall plan using a computer program determined by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
<Amended on Dec. 31, 2018; Dec. 23, 2019> 
1. 
Deleted. <Dec. 31, 2018> 
2. 
Deleted. <Dec. 31, 2018> 
(4) Notwithstanding Paragraph (3), with respect to any medical device falling under Paragraph (2) 
3, when a person responsible for recall finds it impracticable to submit a recall plan within 5 
days, he or she may request the Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety 
to extend the submission period by up to 10 days only once, specifying the reasons for such 
request. <Newly inserted on Dec. 31, 2018> 
(5) When a person responsible for recall submits a recall plan under Paragraph (3), he or she shall 
attach the following documents thereto (including documents in electronic form): <Amended 
on Dec. 31, 2018; Jun. 12., 2019; Dec. 23, 2019> 
1. 
A copy of the records on the manufacturing or import of the relevant item, the records on 
the distribution amount and date by distributor, the records on the lease amount and date 
by lessor, etc.; 
2. 
A notice of a recall plan to be notified under Article 53 (3); 
3. 
Deleted. <Dec. 31, 2018> 
4. 
When a medical device subject to recall falls under Paragraph (2) 1, the name and 
location of a medical institution that has used the relevant medical device and information 
on its founder including his or her name. 
(6) When a person responsible for recall prepares a recall plan under Paragraph (3), he or she shall 
determine the scheduled date for the completion of the recall according to the following 
classifications: Provided, That when it is deemed impracticable to perform the recall within 
such date, the period of recall may be determined in excess of the period classified as follows, 
stating the reasons therefor: <Amended on Dec. 31, 2018> 
1. 
A medical device falling under Paragraph (2) 1: Within 15 days from the start date of the 
recall; 
2. 
A medical device falling under Paragraph (2) 2 or 3: Within 30 days from the start date of 
the recall. 
(7) When any recall plan submitted under Paragraphs (3) through (5) is deemed insufficient, 
the Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety may order the relevant 
person responsible for recall to supplement such recall plan. <Amended on Dec. 31, 2018> 
(8) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (7), details regarding the evaluation of the degree 
of harm of medical devices, the preparation and supplement of recall plans, etc. shall be 
determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. <Newly inserted on 
Dec. 31, 2018> 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
55 
 
 
Article 53 (Publication of Recall Plans) (1) Upon receipt of an order to publish a recall plan from 
the Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety following Article 31 (3) of the 
Act, a person responsible for recall shall publish such recall plan according to the following 
classifications: 
1. 
Medical devices falling under Article 52 (2) 1: Public announcement of the recall plan 
through broadcasting defined in Subparagraph 1 of Article 2 of the Broadcasting Act; 
daily newspapers (referring to all the copies of the relevant newspapers printed and 
distributed for a day] that are distributed nationwide and registered under Article 9 (1) of 
the Act on the Promotion of Newspapers, Etc.; or mass media at least equivalent thereto 
(including such media as may be recognized by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
considering the intended uses, utilization methods, etc. of medical devices subject to 
recall); 
2. 
Medical devices falling under Article 52 (2) 2: Public announcement of the recall plan in 
medical journals or medical engineering journals or media at least equivalent thereto; 
3. 
Medical devices falling under Article 52 (2) 3: Public announcement of the recall plan on 
the website of a person responsible for recall or media at least equivalent thereto. 
(2) The Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety may post the trade name of 
a person responsible for recall; the name, manufacturing number, date of manufacturing, use-
by date, and expiration date of a product; and the reason for recall on the website of the 
regional office of food and drug safety. 
(3) A person responsible for recall shall notify a recall plan to a repairer, distributer, lessor, or 
founder of a medical institution that handles medical devices subject to recall (hereinafter 
“handler of medical devices subject to recall”) via visit, mail, telephone, telegram, email, fax, 
public announcement through media, etc. and retain data evidencing such notice for two years 
from the date of the completion of recall. 
(4) A handler of medical devices subject to recall notified of a recall plan under Paragraph (3) 
shall take measures, such as returning a medical device subject to recall, and prepare a written 
confirmation of recall in Form 44 and send it to the person responsible for the recall of such 
medical device subject to recall. 
(5) Deleted. <Jun. 14, 2018> 
(6) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety may establish and operate a computer program that 
provides information on medical devices subject to recall, etc. and recommend that a handler 
of medical devices subject to recall, etc. install such program. 
(7) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (6), details regarding the method and period for 
the publication of recall plans, notice of such plans, etc. shall be determined and publicly 
notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. <Newly inserted on Dec. 31, 2018> 
[Paragraph (5) of this Article shall be effective until May 10, 2016, following Article 2 of the 
Addenda to the Ordinance of the Prime Minister No. 1181 promulgated on Jul. 29, 2015.] 
 
Article 54 (Destruction of Medical Devices Subject to Recall) (1) A person responsible for recall 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
56 
 
shall destroy a medical device that has been recalled or returned or take other measures to prevent 
harm, and prepare a recall evaluation report in Form 45 (including a report in electronic form) with 
respect thereto. <Amended on Dec. 23, 2019> 
(2) When a person responsible for recall destroys a medical device subject to recall following 
Paragraph (1), he or she shall submit an application for destruction in Form 46 (including an 
application in electronic form), along with the following documents (including documents in 
electronic form) to the competent Mayor/Do Governor; destroy the relevant medical device 
according to the environment-related statutes and regulations in the presence of the relevant 
public officials of the competent Special Metropolitan City, Metropolitan City, Do, and 
Special Self-Governing Province (hereinafter “City/Do”); and prepare the written confirmation 
of destruction in Form 47 (including a written confirmation in electronic form) and retain it for 
two years: <Amended on Dec. 23, 2019; Apr. 13, 2020; Dec. 31, 2020; Jun. 24, 2021> 
1. 
A copy of a recall plan in Form 43; 
2. 
A copy of written confirmation of recall in Form 44. 
(3) Upon completion of a recall, a person responsible for the recall shall submit the recall 
completion report in Form 48 (including a report in electronic form), along with the following 
documents (including documents in electronic form) to the Commissioner of the Regional 
Office of Food and Drug Safety having jurisdiction over the location of the person responsible 
for recall. In such cases, the person responsible for recall may submit the relevant recall 
completion report using a computer program determined by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety <Amended on Dec. 23, 2019> 
1. 
A copy of written confirmation of recall in Form 44; 
2. 
A copy of a recall evaluation report in Form 45; 
3. 
A copy of a written confirmation of destruction in Form 47 (limited to where a medical 
device has been destroyed). 
(4) Upon receipt of a recall completion report under Paragraph (3), the Commissioner of the 
Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety shall take measures according to the following 
classifications: 
1. 
When it is deemed that the recall of a medical device subject has been properly conducted 
according to the recall plan, the completion of the recall shall be confirmed and notified in 
writing to the person responsible for recall; 
2. 
When it is deemed that the recall has not been effectively conducted, the person 
responsible for recall shall be ordered to take additional measures necessary for the recall. 
(5) When the destruction under Paragraph (2) is completed, the Mayor/Do Governor shall notify 
such fact to the Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety having 
jurisdiction over the location of the person responsible for recall. <Amended on Jun. 24, 2021> 
(6) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (5), details regarding measures such as 
destruction, preparation of recall evaluation reports, reporting on completion of a recall, 
measures to be taken, etc. shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety. <Newly inserted on Dec. 31, 2018> 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
57 
 
Article 54-2 (Reporting of Medical Device Supply Records) (1) Pursuant to Article 31-2 (1) of 
the Act, the medical devices required to report supply records are as follows. <Newly Inserted on 
Jan. 16, 2024; Jul. 8, 2024> 
1. 
Implantable medical devices under Article 12-5 (1) of the Enforcement Decree (limited to 
Class III and Class IV medical devices) 
2. 
Medical devices that fall under treatment materials eligible for National Health Insurance 
benefits pursuant to Article 8 (2) of the “Rule on the Standards for National Health 
Insurance Benefits” (limited to those supplied to medical institutions) 
3. 
Other medical devices determined by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety in 
consultation with the Minister of Health and Welfare. 
(2)  A person who intends to report medical device supply records pursuant to Article 31-2 (1) of 
the Act shall submit the Medical Device Supply Record Report in Form 48-2 (including 
electronic documents) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety through the UDI System by the 
end of the month following the month in which the medical device was supplied. <Amended 
on Jan. 16, 2024; Apr. 1, 2025> 
(3)  Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), the Minister of Food and Drug Safety may exclude 
certain medical devices from the reporting requirement for supply records if deemed necessary 
to enhance public health or to achieve public-interest objectives. <Newly Inserted on Jan. 16, 
2024> 
[Newly inserted on Oct. 22, 2019] 
[The previous Article 54-2 was renumbered as Article 54-3 on Oct. 22, 2019] 
 
Article 54-3 (Operation of UDI System) (1) The information to be registered (including 
registration of changes; hereinafter the same shall apply) by medical device manufacturers and 
importers in the UDI System following Article 31-3 (2) of the Act (hereinafter “medical device 
information, etc.”) shall be as follows. 
1. 
Information on UDI codes of medical devices; 
2. 
Information on medical device products (including information on medical device 
approval, certification, or notification); 
3. 
Information on medical device manufacturers and importers (including the foreign origins 
of manufacture). 
(2) The standards to be observed by medical device manufacturers and importers in registering and 
managing medical device information, etc. following Article 31-3 (3) of the Act (hereinafter 
“standards for management of integrated medical device information”) shall be as specified in 
Annex 7-2. 
(3) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety may require the head of the integrated medical device 
information center to conduct the following affairs: 
1. 
Educating medical device manufacturers and importers regarding the registration of 
medical device information, etc. and the methods for using the UDI System, etc.; 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
58 
 
2. 
Providing information on the approval, certification, and notification of medical devices, 
precautions for the use of medical devices, etc. 
(4) Details necessary for the operation and management of the UDI System, including the target 
and scope of medical device information, etc. under Paragraph (1) and the methods for 
providing medical device information, etc. shall be determined and publicly notified by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
[Newly inserted on Dec. 31, 2018] 
[Renumbered from the previous Article 54-2; the previous Article 54-3 has been renumbered as 
Article 54-4 on Oct. 22, 2019] 
 
Article 54-4 (Standards, Targets, and Procedures for Reporting Foreign Substances) (1) The 
scope of foreign substances to be reported to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety by a medical 
device handler following Article 31-5 (1) of the Act (hereinafter “foreign substances”) shall be as 
follows: 
1. 
A substance that is not a normal material used for medical devices, such as metal, plastic, 
or debris generated during manufacturing processes and that may cause direct or indirect 
harm or damage to the human body during the use of the medical devices; 
2. 
A substance related to living things such as insects and their eggs, parasites and their eggs, 
and animal carcasses that may cause direct or indirect harm or damage to the human body 
during the use of medical devices; 
3. 
Other substances determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety to prevent harm caused by the use of medical devices among the substances 
equivalent to those falling under Subparagraph 1 or 2. 
(2) Medical device handlers who intend to report the discovery of foreign substances following 
Article 31-5 (1) of the Act shall submit a foreign substance discovery report in Form 48-3 
(including a report in electronic form), along with evidentiary data to the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety. <Amended on Oct. 22, 2019> 
(3) Upon receipt of a report on the discovery of foreign substances following Paragraph (2), the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall notify the details thereof to the Commissioner of the 
Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety without delay. 
(4) Upon receipt of notice under Paragraph (3), the Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food 
and Drug Safety shall conduct an investigation into the cause of inclusion of the foreign 
substances without delay following Article 31-5 (2) of the Act. In such cases, the 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety may request necessary 
cooperation from the relevant central administrative agencies, local governments, public 
institutions, corporations, organizations, experts, etc. to investigate the cause of inclusion of 
the foreign substances. 
(5) Where the Commissioner of a Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety has completed an 
investigation into the cause of foreign substance contamination pursuant to paragraph (4), he or 
she shall report the investigation results and an action plan to the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety, and, taking into comprehensive consideration the contents of the investigation results, 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
59 
 
the safety of the medical device, and the necessity of preventing harm, shall, without delay, 
take the measures specified in each of the following subparagraphs. <Amended on Jan. 21, 
2022; Mar. 8, 2024> 
1. 
An order to conduct an inspection following Article 33 of the Act; 
2. 
An order of recall, destruction, or any other treatment or the publication thereof following 
Article 34 of the Act; 
3. 
An order of necessary measures such as suspension of use or repair following Article 35 
of the Act. 
(6) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (5), details necessary for the procedures and 
methods for reporting the discovery of foreign substances and for an investigation into the 
inclusion of foreign substances, and relevant measures shall be determined and publicly 
notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
[Newly inserted on Jun. 12, 2019] 
[Renumbered from the previous Article 54-3 on Oct. 22, 2019] 
 
Article 54-5 (Public Announcement of Foreign Substance Findings, etc.) (1) Where any of the 
investigation results reported pursuant to Article 54-4 (5) falls under any of the following 
subparagraphs, the Minister of Food and Drug Safety may, pursuant to Article 31-5 (3) of the Act, 
publicly announce on the website of the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety the fact that foreign 
substances were found, the investigation results, and the action plan. 
1. 
Where it is recognized that harm to public health has occurred or is likely to occur due to 
the use of medical devices contaminated with foreign substances 
2. 
Where foreign substances are found at a location where they may directly or indirectly 
come into contact with the human body, or where it is otherwise necessary to promptly 
notify the public of such findings to prevent harm to public health 
(2)  In addition to the matters prescribed in paragraph (1), detailed matters necessary for the public 
announcement of foreign substance findings, etc. shall be determined and publicly notified by 
the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
[Newly Inserted on Mar. 8, 2024] 
 
Article 55 (Collection) (1) When collecting medical devices following Article 32 (1) 2 of the Act, a 
certificate of collection in Form 49 shall be issued to a person subject to collection. 
(2)  When a specialized inspection of any medical device collected under Paragraph (1) is required, 
a request for a specialized inspection may be made to a medical device testing and inspection 
institution or an institution conducting non-clinical studies. <Amended on May 1, 2017> 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
60 
 
Article 56 (Medical Device Surveillance Officer Identification) An identification proving the 
identity of a relevant public official under Article 32 (2) of the Act (including cases applicable 
mutatis mutandis under the latter part of Article 34 (2) of the Act) shall be as prepared in Form 50. 
 
Article 56-2 (Procedures for On-Site Inspections and Suspension of Import) (1) When the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety intends to conduct an on-site inspection following Article 32-2 
(1), with the exception of its subparagraphs, of the Act (hereinafter “on-site inspection”), he or she 
shall notify the details of the on-site inspection in writing (including electronic documents) to the 
medical device manufacturer, the medical device importer, the manager of an overseas 
manufacturing site, or the government of an exporting country 20 days prior to the execution of the 
on-site inspection. 
(2) Upon completion of an on-site inspection under Article 32-2 (2) of the Act (including where an 
on-site inspection is refused), the Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall notify the results of 
the inspection and provide opinions on the necessary measures to the Commissioner of the 
Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety within 30 days from the completion date of the on-
site inspection. 
(3) The Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety notified of the results of an 
on-site inspection under Paragraph (2) may take the following measures following Article 
32-2 (2) of the Act. In such cases, with respect to the relevant measure taken, the 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety shall notify the matters 
pertaining to the details of, reasons for, and date of such measure, etc. in writing (including 
electronic documents) to the medical device manufacturer, the medical device importer, the 
manager of an overseas manufacturing site, or the government of an exporting country: 
<Amended on Jan. 21, 2022> 
1. 
Suspension of import; 
2. 
An order of recall, destruction, or any other measure or the publication thereof following 
Article 34 of the Act; 
3. 
An order of necessary measures, such as suspension of use or repair, following Article 35 
of the Act. 
(4) When any measure is canceled following Article 32-2 (3) of the Act, such as suspension of 
import, the Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety shall notify the 
matters pertaining to the details of, reasons for, and date of the cancellation, etc. in writing 
(including electronic documents) to the medical device manufacturer, the medical device 
importer, the manager of an overseas manufacturing site, or the government of an exporting 
country. 
[Newly inserted on Jun. 12, 2019] 
 
Article 57 (Orders for Recall, Destruction, and Publication) (1) Following Article 34 (3) of 
the Act, upon verification as to whether a medical device under the subparagraphs of Article 34 (1) 
of the Act falls under any subparagraph of Article 52 (2), the Commissioner of the Regional 
Office of Food and Drug Safety, the Special Self-Governing Province Governor, or the head of a 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
61 
 
Si/Gun/Gu may order a person responsible for recall to recall or destroy the relevant medical device 
or to perform other treatments, and to publish such fact. <Amended on Dec. 31, 2018; Apr. 13, 
2020; Jan. 21, 2022> 
(2)  Articles 52 (3) through (8), Article 53, and Article 54 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the 
methods for recall, destruction, or publication under Paragraph (1). <Amended on Dec. 31, 
2018, Jan. 21, 2022> 
[Title amended on Jan. 21, 2022] 
 
Article 58 (Standards for Administrative Dispositions) (1) The standards for administrative 
dispositions under Article 36 of the Act shall be as specified in Annex 8. 
(2)  The standards for administrative dispositions under Article 37 of the Act shall be as specified 
in Annex 9. 
 
Article 59 (Qualifications and Scope of Duties of Medical Device Surveillance Officers) (1) 
Medical device surveillance officers under Article 40 of the Act shall be appointed by the Minister 
of Health and Welfare, the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, the Commissioner of the Regional 
Office of Food and Drug Safety, the Mayor/Do Governor, or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu from among 
any of the following public officials under the authority thereof: <Amended on Jun. 24, 2021> 
1. 
A person who has graduated from a junior college or a university or college with a degree 
in medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, oriental medicine, veterinary medicine, medical 
engineering, or natural science or engineering or a person who has qualifications at least 
equivalent thereto; 
2. 
A person who has at least 1 year of work experience in health care administration. 
(2)  The scope of duties of medical device surveillance officers shall be as follows: <Amended on 
May 1, 2017; Dec. 31, 2018; Jun. 24, 2021> 
1. 
In cases of medical device surveillance officers belonging to the Ministry of Health and 
Welfare, the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety, or a regional office of food and drug 
safety, the following duties: Provided, That when it is necessary to conduct a national 
survey, systematic survey, etc., the duties referred to in Subaparagraphs 2 and 3 may be 
performed: 
(a) Follow-up surveillance of medical device manufacturers and importers and collection 
and inspection of medical devices; 
(b) Follow -up surveillance of institutions reviewing technical documents, clinical 
investigation sites, institutions conducting non-clinical studies, audit organizations, 
and other places handling medical devices in the process of conducting business 
affairs; and collection and inspection of medical devices (limited to medical device 
surveillance officers belonging to the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety or a regional 
office of food and drug safety); 
2. 
Deleted. <Jun. 24, 2021> 
3. 
In cases of medical device surveillance officers belonging to a Si/Gun/Gu, follow-up 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
62 
 
surveillance of medical device distributors and lessors, the founders of medical 
institutions under the Medical Service Act, and the founders of veterinary hospitals under 
the Veterinarians Act. 
 
Article 59-2 (Qualifications of Customer Medical Device Surveillance Officers) (1) The 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety, Special Metropolitan City Mayor, 
a Metropolitan City Mayor, a Do Governor, the Special Self-Governing Province Governor, the 
Special Self-Governing City Mayor, or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu may commission any of the 
following persons as a consumer medical device surveillance officer following Article 40-2 (1) of 
the Act: <Amended on Apr. 13, 2020; Jun. 24, 2021> 
1. 
A person falling under any subparagraph of Article 59 (1); 
2. 
A person with at least 1 year of work experience at a company or institution related to 
medical devices; 
3. 
A person who has completed an education program determined and publicly notified 
by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
4. 
From among the members or employees of associations or organizations related to 
medical devices, a person recommended by the head of the relevant association or 
organization; 
5. 
From among the executive officers and employees of consumer organizations registered 
under Article 29 of the Framework Act on Consumers, a person recommended by the 
head of the relevant organization. 
(2) A consumer medical device surveillance officer commissioned under Paragraph (1) 
(hereinafter “consumer medical device surveillance officer”) shall serve for two years and may 
be recommissioned for another term of two years. 
(3) “Matters prescribed by Ordinance of the Prime Minister” in Article 40-2 (2) 3 of the Act refers 
to the following: 
1. 
Assisting relevant public officials in destroying, enveloping, or sealing goods following 
Article 34 (2) of the Act; 
2. 
Reporting and providing information on violators of statutes and regulations related to 
medical devices; 
3. 
Others affairs such as public campaigns for the safe management of medical devices. 
(4) Upon commission of a consumer medical device surveillance officer under Paragraph (1), the 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety, the Special Metropolitan City 
Mayor, a Metropolitan City Mayor, a Do Governor, the Special Self-Governing Province 
Governor, the Special Self-Governing City Mayor, or head of a Si/Gun/Gu shall provide 
education on the statutes and regulations, etc. related to medical devices at least once a year to 
such commissioned consumer medical device surveillance officer following Article 40-2 (4) of 
the Act. <Amended on Apr. 13, 2020; Jun. 24, 2021> 
(5) A written approval for unaccompanied access to a distribution or leasing business place by a 
consumer medical device surveillance officer and an identification indicating his or her status 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
63 
 
under Article 40-2 (7) of the Act shall be as prepared in Forms 50-2 and 50-3, respectively. 
(6) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (5), details regarding the operation of consumer 
medical device surveillance officers shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety. 
[Newly inserted on Jun. 15, 2016] 
 
Article 59-3 (Designation of Medical Device Safety Information Monitoring Centers) (1) A 
person who intends to obtain designation as a monitoring center (hereinafter “monitoring center”) 
on medical device safety information under Article 43 (1) 7 (hereinafter “medical device safety 
information”) for an institution following Article 43 (3) shall submit an application for 
designation as a monitoring center in Form 50-4 (including an application in electronic form) to the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety, along with documents (including electronic documents) 
regarding the following matters: 
1. 
A business progress plan of a monitoring center; 
2. 
Budget for a business progress plan of a monitoring center; 
3. 
Facilities and personnel required for a business progress plan of a monitoring center; 
4. 
Performance regarding collection and analysis of medical device safety information 
within the last 3 years (only when applicable); 
5. 
Other matters similar to documents under Subparagraphs 1 through 4 which are 
deemed necessary by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
(2) Upon receipt of an application under Paragraph (1), the Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall 
verify a license for opening a medical institution through administrative data matching under 
Article 36 (1) of the Electronic Government Act: Provided, That when an applicant does not 
consent to the verification of the license for opening a medical institution, such applicant 
shall attach a copy thereof. 
(3) When deemed necessary for designation as a monitoring center under Article 43 (3) by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety, he or she may conduct a fact-finding survey on the facility 
and personnel of such center. 
(4) When deemed necessary for effective operation of monitoring centers under Article 43 (3) by 
the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, he or she may designate monitoring centers by 
distributing them across regions or districts as determined by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety. 
(5) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety designates a monitoring center under Article 43 
(3), he or she shall issue the applicant with a certificate of designation as a monitoring center in 
Form 50-5. 
(6) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (5), details necessary for procedures and 
methods for designation as a monitoring center shall be determined and publicly notified by 
the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
[Newly inserted on Dec. 4, 2020] 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
64 
 
 
Article 59-4 (Business Scope and Operation of Monitoring Centers) (1) The scope of business 
of a monitoring center shall be as follows: 
1. 
Collection of side effects or safety information regarding medical devices; 
2. 
Analysis and research on side effects of medical devices; 
3. 
Exchange and cooperation with other medical institutions regarding medical device safety 
information; 
4. 
Education and campaigns regarding medical device safety information; 
5. 
Business similar to the matters under Subparagraphs 1 through 4 which is deemed 
necessary by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
(2) A monitoring center shall report through the NIDS every year to the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety on matters regarding a business operation plan, budget plan, results of business 
and budget execution, etc., as determined by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
(3) A monitoring center shall notify the NIDS every month of matters on side effects or safety 
information as determined by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety for supporting medical 
device safety information businesses: Provided, That in cases of matters regarding information 
with grave effects on public health, etc., the monitoring center shall report such matters to the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety and the NIDS without delay. 
(4) When deemed necessary for securement of appropriate business operations or budget 
operations of a monitoring center by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, he or she may 
order relevant measures, including the complementation or improvement of the relevant 
monitoring center. 
(5) When deemed necessary for facilitation of the operation of a monitoring center by the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety, he or she shall fully or partially support operational expenses of 
such center within a set budget. 
(6) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (5), details necessary for the business, operation, 
and supervision of a monitoring center shall be determined and publicly notified by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
[Newly inserted on Dec. 4, 2020] 
 
Article 60 (Procedures and Methods for Revoking Manufacturing Approval of Medical 
Devices) The procedures, methods, etc. for revocation under Article 43-2 of the Act shall be 
governed by the Administrative Procedures Act. 
[Title amended on Jan. 21, 2022] 
 
Article 61 (Guidance and Supervision for the NIDS) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall 
provide guidance and supervision to the NIDS on the following matters at least once a year 
following Article 43-3 (4) of the Act: <Amended on Jun 14, 2018> 
1. 
Whether the affairs related to certification or notification entrusted to the NIDS 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
65 
 
following Article 44 (2) of the Act have been appropriately performed; 
2. 
Whether the operational budget has been appropriately compiled and executed; 
3. 
Other matters deemed necessary by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
[Title amended on Jun. 14, 2018] 
 
Article 61-2 (Qualifications, Scope of Duties, and Identifications of Investigators of Causal 
Relationship) (1) An investigator of causal relationship under Article 43-5 (1) of the Act 
(hereinafter “investigator of causal relationship”) shall be appointed or commissioned from among 
any of the following persons: 
1. 
An employee of the NIDS responsible for investigating and identifying the causal 
relationship between medical devices and the side effects; 
2. 
A public health doctor defined in Article 2 of the Act on Special Measures for Health and 
Medical Services in Agricultural and Fishing Villages, Etc.; 
3. 
A medical doctor, dentist, oriental medical doctor, or nurse referred to in Article 2 (1) of 
the Medical Service Act; 
4. 
Other persons with abundant expertise and experience in fields related to medical devices. 
(2) The head of the NIDS may pay allowances and travel expenses to a commissioned 
investigator of causal relationship within a set budget. 
(3) An investigator of causal relationship may investigate and identify the causal relationship 
between medical devices and the side effects in any of the following cases: 
1. 
When side effects falling under Article 51 (1) 1 or 2 have occurred or are suspected of 
having occurred during the use of medical devices; 
2. 
When unintended syndromes, symptoms, or diseases have occurred in large numbers 
to patients who have used the medical devices at a specific region or in a specific period 
of time; 
3. 
Other cases where the Minister of Food and Drug Safety deems it necessary to 
investigate and identify the causal relationship between medical devices and the side 
effects. 
(4) An identification indicating the authority of an investigator of causal relationship referred to in 
the latter part of Article 43-5 (3) of the Act shall be as prepared in Form 50-4. 
(5) “Relevant documents” in the latter part of Article 43-5 (3) of the Act refers to documents 
including the following matters: 
1. 
The purpose, duration, scope, and contents of the investigation; 
2. 
The name and position of a person responsible for the investigation; 
3. 
The list of submitted data; 
4. 
The statutes and regulations serving as a legal basis for the investigation; 
5. 
The details of administrative dispositions, penalties, etc. for the refusal, obstruction, 
evasion, etc. of the investigation and statutes and regulations used as a legal basis therefor; 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
66 
 
6. 
Except as provided in Subparagraphs 1 through 5, matters deemed necessary by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety for the relevant investigation. 
[Newly inserted on Jun. 14, 2018] 
 
Article 62 (Medical Devices Excluded from Validity Periods) The validity period of 
manufacturing approval, etc. under the main text of Article 49 (1) (hereinafter “manufacturing 
approval, etc.”) does not apply to any of the following medical devices following the proviso of 
Article 49 (1): 
1. 
Medical devices for export produced or imported only for the export; 
2. 
Medical devices that have obtained conditional manufacturing approval or for which a 
conditional manufacturing notification has been filed under Article 7 of the Act (including 
cases applicable mutatis mutandis under Article 15 (6) of the Act). 
[Wholly amended on Dec. 4, 2020] 
 
Article 62-2 (Renewal of Manufacturing Approval) Standards for manufacturing approval, etc. 
under Article 49 (3) of the Act shall be as follows: 
1. 
Any serious problem shall not exist regarding safety or effectiveness of medical devices; 
2. 
Data necessary for renewal of manufacturing approval, etc. shall be faithfully submitted; 
3. 
Production or import performance data shall exist regarding the relevant medical device; 
4. 
Statues and regulations related to medical devices shall be faithfully observed; 
5. 
Other standards similar to the ones under Subparagraphs 1 through 4 determined and 
publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall be satisfied. 
(2) A person who intends to have manufacturing approval, etc. renewed under Article 49 (3) of the 
Act shall submit an application for the renewal of manufacturing (import) approval in Form 51, 
an application for renewal of manufacturing (import) certification in Form 51-2, or an 
application for notification of the renewal of manufacturing (import) notification in Form 51-3 
(including an application in electronic form) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety [limited 
to manufacturing (import) renewal; hereinafter the same shall apply] or to the NIDS [limited to 
manufacturing (import) certification or notification renewal; hereinafter the same shall apply], 
along with the following documents (including electronic documents): 
1. 
Original copy of a manufacturing (import) license or manufacturing (import) certificate of 
the relevant medical device; 
2. 
Data evidencing that safety and effectiveness of the relevant medical device has been 
maintained over the previous validity period; 
3. 
Data regarding production or import performance of the relevant medical device for the 
previous validity period; 
4. 
Other cases similar to data under Subparagraphs 1 through 3, which are deemed 
necessary by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety for the renewal of manufacturing 
approval, etc. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
67 
 
(3) When deemed necessary for renewal of a manufacturing approval, etc. under Article 49 (3) of 
the Act, the Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the NIDS may conduct a fact-finding survey 
on a manufacturer or importer or request a related institution, organization, specialist, etc. to 
provide data or opinion. 
(4) When the Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the NIDS renews manufacturing approval, etc. 
under Article 49 (3) of the Act, he or she shall issue a new manufacturing (import) license 
in Form 4 or a new manufacturing (import) certificate in Form 6 and notify the applicant of 
the renewal of manufacturing (import) notification in writing. In such cases, the validity 
period of the renewed manufacturing approval, etc. shall start from the day following the 
end of the previous validity period. 
(5) When deemed necessary for renewal of manufacturing approval, etc. under Article 49 (3) of 
the Act, the Minister of Food and Drug Safety or NIDS may notify in advance the 
manufacturer or importer of the fact that the manufacturing approval, etc. cannot be renewed 
after the expiration of the validity period and matters regarding renewal procedure. 
(6) “Unavoidable causes prescribed by Ordinance of the Prime Minister” under the proviso of 
Article 49 (6) of the Act refers to the following cases: <Amended on Jan. 21, 2022> 
1. 
When it is deemed impossible to proceed with normal manufacturing operations because 
raw materials for manufacturing of medical devices were not provided; 
2. 
When it is deemed impossible to proceed with normal import processes because of 
suspension of medical device export in the exporting country or political or economic 
situation thereof; 
3. 
When demand for orphan medical devices applied to a small number of patients, etc. is 
deemed non-existent; 
4. 
Other causes similar to those under Subparagraphs 1 through 3 which are determined and 
publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
(7) Except as provided in Paragraphs (1) through (6), details necessary for the procedures and 
methods for the renewal of manufacturing approval, etc. shall be determined and publicly 
notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
[Newly inserted on Dec. 4, 2020] 
 
Article 63 (Re-Issuance of Licenses) (1) A medical device manufacturer, importer, repairer, 
distributor, or lessor who intends to be reissued a license, certificate, or certification of notification 
for reasons recognized by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, including when the license, 
certificate, or certification of notification is lost, becomes unusable, or becomes subject to any 
change, such manufacturer, importer, repairer, distributor, or lessor shall submit an application in 
Form 52 (including an application in electronic form), along with the relevant license, certificate, or 
certification of notification (excluding when the license, certificate, or certificate of notification 
is lost) to a person according to the following classifications: <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018, Jun. 
24, 2021> 
1. 
For a medical device manufacturer or importer: 
(a) The manufacturing or import business license: The Commissioner of the Regional 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
68 
 
Office of Food and Drug Safety having jurisdiction over the location of the relevant 
manufacturing or import business place; 
(b) The manufacturing or import license: The Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
(c) The manufacturing or import certificate and the certificate of manufacturing or 
import notification: The head of the NIDS; 
2. 
Deleted. <Jun. 24, 2021> 
3. 
For a medical device repairer, distributor, or lessor: The Special Self-Governing 
Province Governor or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu having jurisdiction over the location of 
the relevant repair, distribution, or leasing business place. 
(2)  When reissuing a license, certificate, or certificate of notification following Paragraph (1), the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety, Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug 
Safety, the head of the NIDS, the Mayor/Do Governor, or the head of a Si/Gun/Gu shall enter 
the reasons for re-issuance in the relevant register. <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018; Jun. 24, 2021> 
(3)  Any person who intends to be confirmed or proved regarding matters approved, certified, or 
notified under Article 6 or 15 of the Act shall submit an application in Form 53 (including an 
application in electronic form; for a foreign-language application, the translation thereof) to the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety, the Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug 
Safety having jurisdiction over the location of the relevant manufacturing or import business 
place, or the head of the NIDS. <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018> 
 
Article 64 (Cooperation in Provision of Data) Any person who has applied for manufacturing 
approval or manufacturing certification or has filed a manufacturing notification under Articles 5 
through 7 may request that the Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the head of the NIDS provide 
specialized institutions or organizations entrusted with the relevant affairs under Article 55 of the 
Medical Service Act with documents including the relevant applications for manufacturing approval 
or notifications, and data stating the current status of the procedures for manufacturing licenses, etc. 
In such cases, the Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the head of the NIDS who receives such 
request may provide the relevant documents and data to such specialized institutions or 
organizations. <Amended on Jun. 14, 2018> 
 
Article 65 (Fees) (1) Fees under Article 50 of the Act shall be as specified in Annex 10: Provided, 
That when any matter approved, certified, or notified is modified, a person who has filed an 
application or notification shall be exempted from fees if such person is not responsible for the 
change, including when the need for change arises due to the change of location following the 
reorganization of administrative districts, and where any of the following subparagraphs applies, the 
fees may be reduced by up to 50 percent. <Amended on Sep. 20, 2024; Apr. 1, 2025> 
1. 
Where the person liable for payment of fees under subparagraph 1 or item 18 of Annex 10 
is a micro-enterprise pursuant to Article 2 of the Framework Act on Micro Enterprises, 
and the Minister of Food and Drug Safety deems that a fee reduction is necessary to 
alleviate economic burden or support business stability; 
2. 
Where the person liable for payment of fees under subparagraphs 3, 4, 5, 6, and 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
69 
 
subparagraphs 8 through 10 of Annex 10 intends to manufacture or import medical 
devices that include a function to provide use information electronically—such as voice 
guidance or text enlargement—or where software, equipment, or other components for 
such function are provided together, pursuant to Article 23-2 (1) 2 of the Act; 
3. 
Where the person liable for payment of fees under subparagraphs 3-2 and 19 of Annex 10 
is a small or medium enterprise pursuant to Article 2 of the Framework Act on Small and 
Medium Enterprises, and the Minister of Food and Drug Safety deems that a fee reduction 
is necessary to alleviate economic burden or support business stability. 
(2) The fees under Paragraph (1) may be paid according to the following classifications: 
<Amended on Jun. 15, 2016; Jun. 14, 2018> 
1. 
Payment to a State agency: Using electronic money, electronic payment, etc. via the 
information and communications network (hereafter, in this Paragraph, “electronic money, 
etc.”) or revenue stamps (in cases of business affairs under the authority of the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety, cash or payment receipts verifying cash payment); 
2. 
Payment to a local government: Electronic money, etc. or revenue stamps of the relevant 
local government; 
3. 
Payment to the NIDS: Electronic money, etc. 
(3)  When the person who has paid fees under Paragraphs (1) and (2) withdraws the application for 
approval, certification, etc. within the period determined and publicly notified by the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety, the Minister of Food and Drug Safety may return the entire or part of 
such fees as determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
<Newly inserted on Apr. 13, 2020> 
 
Article 66 (Re-Examination of Regulation) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall examine 
the appropriateness of the following matters every 3 years, counting from each base date specified 
in the following (referring to the period that ends on the day before the base date of every third 
year), and shall take measures, such as making improvements: <Amended on Jan. 16, 2024> 
1. 
Compliance requirements for nonclinical study facilities under Article 24-3 of Article 35: 
January 1, 2024 
2. 
Compliance requirements for manufacturers under Article 27: January 1, 2024 
3. 
Compliance requirements for importers under Article 33: January 1, 2024 
4. 
Filing of notifications, notifications of change, and notifications of closure or suspension 
for medical device repair businesses under Article 35 (excluding paragraph (4) thereof): 
January 1, 2014 
5. 
Compliance requirements for medical device repair business operators under Article 35 
(4): January 1, 2024 
6. 
Filing of notifications, notifications of change, and notifications of closure or suspension 
for medical device sales or rental businesses under Article 37: January 1, 2014 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
70 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1181, Jul. 29, 2015> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on July 29, 2015: Provided, That the 
amended provisions according to the following classifications shall enter into force on the dates 
specified in the relevant subparagraphs: 
1. 
The amended provisions pertaining to the manufacturing and quality management 
systems in Articles 5, 6, 8, 16, 17, 26, 27, 30, 31, and 33, Annexes 2 through 4, and Forms 
3, 5, and 29 through 31: January 29, 2016; 
2. 
In the amended provisions of the proviso of Article 9 (2), the provisions providing for the 
exclusion of medical devices determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety as medical devices requiring the submission of data regarding clinical 
investigations: January 1, 2016; 
3. 
The amended provisions of Subparagraph 2 of Annex 1: February 1, 2016; 
4. 
Among the amended provisions of Article 9 (3), with the exception of its subparagraphs, 
the provisions providing for the submission to the head of a technical documentation 
review body: January 1, 2017. 
 
Article 2 (Effective Period) The amended provisions of Articles 50 (2) and 53 (5) shall be effective 
until May 10, 2016. 
 
Article 3 (Applicability of Cooperation in Provision of Data) The amended provisions of Article 64 
(including cases applicable mutatis mutandis under Article 34) shall also apply to a person who 
applies for manufacturing or import approval or files a manufacturing or importing notification 
before this Rule enters into force. 
 
Article 4 (Special Cases Concerning Manufacture of In Vitro Diagnostic Drugs and Recognition of 
Compliance with Quality Management Standards) With respect to in vitro diagnostic drugs under 
Article 6 of the Addenda to the Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act (Ordinance of the 
Prime Minister No. 1081), any person who has obtained approval for manufacture, distribution, or 
import of items or has filed a notification for manufacture, distribution, or import of items 
following Article 4 or 5 of the Rule on Safety of Drugs, etc. as of the enforcement date specified in 
Subparagraph 1 of Article 1 of that Addenda, shall be deemed to have obtained recognition for 
compliance with standards under the amended provisions of Annex 2 by the dates according to 
the following classifications: 
1. 
Class II in vitro diagnostic devices: November 10, 2016; 
2. 
Class III and Class IV in vitro diagnostic devices: November 10, 2015. 
 
Article 5 (General Transitional Measures) Any disposition, procedure, or other acts carried out 
under the previous provisions before this Rule enters into force shall be deemed carried out under 
the corresponding provisions of this Rule. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
71 
 
 
Article 6 (Transitional Measures Concerning Application of Standards for Administrative 
Dispositions) The previous provisions shall apply to administrative dispositions for violations 
committed before this Rule enters into force. 
 
Article 7 (Transitional Measures Concerning Introduction of Standards for Distribution Quality 
Management) Any person who has filed a notification of a distribution or lease business as of the 
enforcement date specified in Subparagraph 2 of Article 1 of the Addenda to the Enforcement Rule 
of the Medical Devices Act (Ordinance of the Prime Minister No. 1081) shall comply with the 
standards prescribed in the amended provisions of Annex 6 by December 31, 2015. 
 
Article 8 (Transitional Measures Concerning Forms) (1) Any manufacturer or importer under 
Article 3 of the Addenda to the Medical Devices Act (Act No. 12392) (hereafter in this Article 
“manufacturer or importer under the previous provisions”), at the time the Enforcement Rule of the 
Medical Devices Act (Ordinance of the Prime Minister No. 1093) enters into force, may continue to 
use a manufacturing or import business license issued under the previous provisions until they are 
reissued the relevant license under Paragraph (2). 
(2)  Any manufacturer or importer under the previous provisions shall be reissued a manufacturing 
or import business license following the amended provisions of Form 2 from the 
Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety having jurisdiction over the 
location of the relevant manufacturing or import business place within 3 months from July 29, 
2016. 
 
Article 9 (Relationship with Other Statutes) (1) When any of the previous provisions of the 
Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act is cited by other statutes and regulations at the time 
this Rule enters into force, and when this Rule includes a corresponding provision, such 
corresponding provision shall be deemed cited in lieu of the previous provision of this Rule. 
(2)  When any in vitro diagnostic reagent or in vitro diagnostic drug under the Rule on Safety of 
Drugs, Etc. is cited by other statutes and regulations at the time the Enforcement Rule of the 
Medical Devices Act (Ordinance of the Prime Minister No. 1081) enters into force, an in vitro 
diagnostic medical device referred to in this Rule shall be deemed cited in lieu thereof. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1284, Jun. 15, 2016> 
This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1307, Jul. 29, 2016> 
This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1354, Jan. 4, 2017> 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
72 
 
This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1389, May 1, 2017> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Applicability to Amounts of Fees) Among the amended provisions of Annex 10 and 
Forms 3, 5, 7, 8, 30, and 31, the provisions pertaining to the amounts of fees shall begin to apply 
when an application, notification, or request for review is filed after this Rule enters into force. 
 
Article 3 (Transitional Measures Concerning Designation as Institutions Conducting Non-Clinical 
Studies) A person conducting non-clinical studies under Article 27 of the Act among the institutions 
designated as medical device testing and inspection institutions referred to in Article 6 (2) 4 of the 
Act on Testing and Inspection in the Food and Drug Industry, at the time this Rule enters into force, 
shall be deemed designated as an institution conducting non-clinical studies under the amended 
provisions of Article 24-2: Provided, That such institution shall obtain designation as an institution 
conducting non-clinical studies under the amended provisions of Article 24-2 within 2 years from 
the date this Rule enters into force. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1469, Jun. 14, 2018> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on June 14, 2018: Provided, That the 
amended provisions of Articles 10, Article 14 (4) through (9), Articles 32, 51, and 53, Article 63 (1), 
with the exception of its subparagraphs, and Forms 11-2 and 12 shall enter into force on the date of 
its promulgation; and the amended provisions of Articles 36 and 46-2 shall enter into force on 
September 14, 2018. 
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures Concerning Minor Repair of Medical Devices) Notwithstanding 
the amended provisions of the proviso of Subparagraph 1 of Article 36, the previous provisions 
shall apply when a medical device repairer performs a minor repair of medical devices under the 
amended provisions of Article 46-2 before this Rule enters into force. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1512, Dec. 31, 2018> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: 
Provided, That the amended provisions of Articles 52 through 54 and 57 shall enter into force 3 
months after the date of its promulgation; and the amended provisions of Article 54-2 and 
Subparagraph 29-2 of II of Annex 8 shall enter into force on the date specified in Article 2 (1) 3 of 
the Addenda. 
 
Article 2 (Enforcement Date of the Medical Devices Act) (1) The “date prescribed by Ordinance of 
the Prime Minister” in the main text of Article 1 of the Addenda to the Medical Devices Act (Act 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
73 
 
No. 14330) refers to the dates according to the following classifications: <Amended on Oct. 22, 
2019> 
1. 
The amended provisions of the former part of Article 16 (4) and Article 31-4 of the 
Medical Devices Act (Act No. 14330): The date of promulgation; 
2. 
The amended provisions of Articles 2 (4), Article 36 (1) 9-2, and Article 3-2 of the 
Medical Devices Act (Act No. 14330): July 1, 2019; 
3. 
The amended provisions of Articles 20, Article 31-3, Article 36 (1) 17-3, and Article 56 
(1) 2-3 of the Medical Devices Act (Act No. 14330): 
(a) For Class IV medical devices: July 1, 2019; 
(b) For Class III medical devices: July 1, 2020; 
(c) For Class II medical devices: July 1, 2021; 
(d) For Class I medical devices: July 1, 2022; 
4. 
The amended provisions of Articles 31-2, Article 36 (1) 17-2, and Article 56 (1) 2-2 of 
the Medical Devices Act (Act No. 14330): The dates according to the following 
classifications: 
(a) Class IV medical devices: July 1, 2020; 
(b) Class III medical devices: July 1, 2021; 
(c) Class II medical devices: July 1, 2022; 
(d) Class I medical devices: July 1, 2023. 
(2)  Notwithstanding Paragraph (1) 3, the date the amended provisions of Subparagraph 9 of 
Article 20 and Article 22 of the Medical Devices Act (Act No. 15279) enter into force 
following the proviso of Article 1 of the Addenda to that Act shall be July 1, 2019. 
 
Article 3 (Applicability to Recall Procedures of Harmful Medical Devices) The amended 
provisions of Articles 52 and 57 shall begin to apply when any medical device is verified as a 
medical device subject to recall under any Subparagraph of Article 52 (2) after this Rule enters into 
force. 
 
Article 4 (Applicability to Registration of Integrated Medical Device Information) The amended 
provisions of Article 54-2 shall begin to apply when any medical device manufacturer or importer 
supplies medical devices after this Rule enters into force. 
 
Article 5 (Transitional Measures Concerning Standards for Administrative Dispositions) 
Notwithstanding the amended provisions of Annex 8, the previous provisions shall apply to any 
violation committed before this Rule enters into force. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1542, Jun, 12, 2019> 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
74 
 
This Rule shall enter into force on June 12, 2019: Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 
9 (2) 4 and Subparagraph 3 of Article 22 shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1567, Oct. 22, 2019> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: 
Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 54-2, Subparagraph 29-2 of II. Individual 
Standards of Annex 8, and Form 48-2 shall enter into force on the dates according to the following 
classifications, and the amended provisions of Form 7 shall enter into force 1 year after the date of 
its promulgation. 
1. 
Class IV medical devices: July 1, 2020; 
2. 
Class III medical devices: July 1, 2021; 
3. 
Class II medical devices: July 1, 2022; 
4. 
Class I medical devices: July 1, 2023. 
 
Article 2 (Applicability to Entering Resident Registration Numbers in Manufacturing Business 
Approval Register) The amended provisions of Article 3 (3) 4 (including cases applicable mutatis 
mutandis under Article 34) shall also apply to the approval register or notification register for 
persons who have obtained manufacturing business approval or have filed an import business 
notification before this Rule enters into force. 
 
Article 3 (Applicability to Reporting Details of Supply of Medical Devices) The amended 
provisions of Article 54-2 shall begin to apply to medical devices supplied in the month following 
the 1 in which the amended provisions of the proviso of Article 1 of the Addenda enter into force. 
 
Article 4 (Transitional Measures Concerning Application of Standards for Administrative 
Dispositions) Notwithstanding the amended provisions of Subparagraph 9 (g) of II. Individual 
Standards of Annex 8 and Subparagraph 12 (f) of the Individual Standards, the previous provisions 
shall apply when the standards for administrative dispositions against violations committed before 
this Rule enters into force are applied. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1580, Dec. 23, 2019> 
This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1607, Apr. 13, 2020> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: 
Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 27 (2), Article 33 (2), and Subparagraph 9-2 of II. 
Individual Standards of Annex 8 shall enter into force 1 year and 6 months after the date of its 
promulgation, and the amended provisions of Article 65 (3) shall enter into force 6 months after the 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
75 
 
date of its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Applicability to Reports on Production or Import Suspension) The amended provisions 
of Article 27 (2) 2 and Article 33 (2) 2 shall begin to apply when the production or import of 
medical device is suspended after the relevant amended provisions enter into force following the 
proviso of Article 1 of the Addenda. 
 
Article 3 (Applicability to the Return of Fees) The amended provisions of Article 65 (3) shall begin 
to apply to the fees paid after the relevant amended provisions enter into force following the proviso 
of Article 1 of the Addenda. 
 
Article 4 (Transitional Measures Concerning Period for Handling Notification of Change of 
Medical Device Repair Businesses) Notwithstanding the amended provisions of Form 35, the 
previous provisions shall apply when the procedure of notification on change of medical device 
repair business is underway. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1614, May 1, 2020> (Enforcement Rule of the Act On In Vitro 
Diagnostic Medical Devices) 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Act shall enter into force on May 1, 2020. 
 
Article 2 (Amendment of Other Statues and Regulations) (1) Part of the Enforcement Rule of The 
Medical Devices Act shall be amended as follows: 
 
Article 11 (2) 1 (d) is deleted. 
 
The provisos to Article 20 (1) 3 and Paragraph (3) 3 of the same Article are deleted. 
 
Subparagraphs 1 (c) and (d) in Annex 1 are deleted, and "according to Items (a)A through (d)" 
in the Item (e) shall be changed into "according to Items (a) and (b)." 
 
The proviso to Subparagraph 3 in the box on supporting documents in Form 19 is deleted. The 
proviso to Subparagraph 3 in the box on supporting documents in Form 20 is deleted. 
(2) Omitted 
 
Article 3 omitted 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1617, May 29, 2020> (Rules on Supporting and Managing Innovative 
Medical Devices) 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Amendment of Other Statues and Regulations) Part of the Enforcement Rule of The 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
76 
 
Medical Devices Act shall be amended as follows. 
Columns for supporting documents of the former part of Form 30 shall be as follows: 
Supporting 
Documents 
1. 
Medical device software designated as an innovative medical device (referring 
to independently developed and manufactured software) under Article 21 (2) of 
the Act on Nurturing Medical Device Industry and Supporting Innovative 
Medical Devices: The following documents under the subparagraphs of Article 
11 of the Rules on Supporting and Managing Innovative Medical Devices: 
(a) Document verifying the changed matters; 
(b) Technical documents and clinical investigation data under Article 6 (5) of 
the Medical Devices Act (limited to changed matters determined and 
publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety that affect the 
safety and effectiveness of medical device software designated as an 
innovative medical device); 
(c) Data evidencing the standards for facilities and manufacturing and quality 
management systems under Article 15 of the Enforcement Rule of the Act 
on Nurturing Medical Device Industry and Supporting Innovative 
Medical Devices are satisfied (limited to change of the manufacturing site 
or business facility determined and publicly notified by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety). 
2. 
Medical devices not falling under Subparagraph 1: The following documents 
under the subparagraphs of Article 26 (3) of the Enforcement Rule of the Act 
on Nurturing Medical Device Industry and Supporting Innovative Medical 
Devices: 
(a) Document verifying the changed matters; 
(b) Documents under Article 5 (1) 2 of the Enforcement Rule of the Act on 
Nurturing Medical Device Industry and Supporting Innovative Medical 
Devices when a major matter that affects the safety or effectiveness of the 
medical device, such as the design, chemical components, energy source, 
manufacturing process, etc. is modified; 
(c) A copy of a contract for entrustment (limited to when the manufacturing 
processes or testing for quality management are entrusted; including 
electronic documents) and data evidencing the standards for the facilities 
and manufacturing and quality management systems under Form 2 of the 
Enforcement Rule of the Act on Nurturing Medical Device Industry and 
Supporting Innovative Medical Devices are satisfied, when the location of 
the manufacturing site of the relevant item is modified or other sites are 
added; 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
77 
 
Columns for supporting documents of the former part of Form 30 shall be as follows: 
Supporting 
Documents 
1. 
Medical device software designated as an innovative medical device (referring 
to independently developed and manufactured software) under Article 21 (2) of 
the Act on Nurturing Medical Device Industry and Supporting Innovative 
Medical Devices: The following documents under the subparagraphs of Article 
11 of the Rules on Supporting and Managing Innovative Medical Devices: 
(a) Document verifying the changed matters; 
(b) Technical documents and clinical investigation data under Article 6 (5) of 
the Medical Devices Act (limited to changed matters determined and 
publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety that affect the 
safety and effectiveness of medical device software designated as an 
innovative medical device); 
(c) Data evidencing the standards for facilities and manufacturing and quality 
management systems under Article 15 of the Enforcement Rule of the Act 
on Nurturing Medical Device Industry and Supporting Innovative Medical 
Devices are satisfied (limited to change of the manufacturing site or 
business facility determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety) 
2. 
Medical devices not falling under Subparagraph 1: The following documents 
under the subparagraphs of Article 26 (3) of the Enforcement Rule of the Act 
on Nurturing Medical Device Industry and Supporting Innovative Medical 
Devices: 
(a) Document verifying the changed matters; 
(b) Documents under Article 5 (1) 2 of the Enforcement Rule of the Act on 
Nurturing Medical Device Industry and Supporting Innovative Medical 
Devices when a major matter that affects the safety or effectiveness of the 
medical device, such as the design, chemical components, energy source, 
manufacturing process, etc. is modified; 
(c) A copy of a contract for entrustment (limited to when the manufacturing 
processes or testing for quality management are entrusted; including 
electronic documents) and data evidencing the standards for the facilities 
and manufacturing and quality management systems under Form 2 of the 
Enforcement Rule of the Act on Nurturing Medical Device Industry and 
Supporting Innovative Medical Devices are satisfied, when the location of 
the manufacturing site of the relevant item is modified or other sites are 
added; 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
78 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1658, Dec. 4, 2020> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: 
Provided, That the amended provisions of Article 27 (1) 9, Article 33 (1) 14, and Annex 8 shall 
enter into force 1 month after the date of its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Applicability to Compliance for Manufacturers or Importers) The amended provisions of 
Article 27 (1) 9 and Article 33 (1) 14 shall begin to apply to the data or information (including cases 
of side effects following the use of the medical device) of which manufacturers or importers 
become aware after the relevant amended provisions enter into force following the proviso of 
Article 1 of the Addenda. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1662, Dec. 31, 2020> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures Concerning Fees) Notwithstanding the amended provisions of 
Form 10, the previous provisions shall apply to the fees for the application for medical device 
manufacturing or import approval or change thereof, or the request for review of technical 
documents, etc. before this Rule enters into force. 
 
Article 3 (Amendment of Other Statutes) Parts of the Enforcement Rule of the Act on In Vitro 
Diagnostic Medical Devices shall be amended as follows. 
The fee column at the back of Form 3 shall be as follows: 
Fee 
e-Government 
Visit/Mail 
1. 
Subject of the review of data regarding 
clinical performance studies: KRW 
1,495,000; 
2. 
Subject of the review of technical 
documents: KRW 719,000 
3. 
Other cases: KRW 158,000. 
1. 
Subject of the review of data regarding 
clinical performance studies: KRW 
1,662,000; 
2. 
Subject of the review of technical 
documents: KRW 799,000; 
3. 
Other cases: KRW 176,000. 
The fee column at the back of Form 5 shall be as follows: 
Fee 
e-Government 
Visit/Mail 
130,000 KRW 
145,000 KRW 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
79 
 
The fee column at the back of Form 7 shall be as follows: 
Fee 
e-Government 
Visit/Mail 
85,000 KRW 
96,000 KRW 
The fee column in front of Form 18 shall be as follows: 
Fee 
e-Government 
Visit/Mail 
1. 
Change Approval 
- 
For reviewing clinical performance 
study: 1,009,000 KRW 
- 
For reviewing technical documents: 
551,000 KRW 
- 
Others: 121,000 KRW 
2. 
Change Certification: 82,000 KRW 
3. 
Change notification: KRW 39,000. 
1. 
Change Approval 
-  
Subject of the review of data 
regarding clinical performance 
studies: KRW 1,122,000; 
- 
For reviewing technical documents: 
612,000 KRW 
- 
Others: 135,000 KRW 
2. 
Change Certification: 93,000 KRW 
3. 
Change notification: KRW 39,000. 
Article 4 (Transitional Measures Concerning Amendment of Other Statues and Regulations) 
Notwithstanding the amended provisions of Forms 3, 5, 7, and 18 of the Enforcement Rule of the 
Act On In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices, the previous provisions shall apply to the fees for an 
application for approval and certification or a notification of in vitro diagnostic medical device 
manufacture and import filed before this Rule enters into force. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1709, Jun. 24, 2021> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: 
Provided, That the following amended provisions shall enter into force on the dates according to the 
following classification: 
1. 
Amended provisions of Articles 45, 45-2, 45-3, Forms 38-2, 38-3, and Subparagraph 8 of 
Annex 8 I and Annex 10: June 24, 2021; 
2. 
Amended provision of Article 50 (2) 2 (b): 1 year after promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Applicability to Medical Devices for the Purpose of Exhibition) The amended provisions 
of Article 46 (4) shall begin to apply to medical devices certified as medical devices for exhibition 
purposes before this Rule enters into force. 
 
Article 3 (Applicability to Medical Devices Subject to Tracking Management) The amended 
provision of Article 50 (2) 2 (b) shall begin to apply when medical institutions use medical devices 
subject to tracking management determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety after the enforcement date following Subparagraph 2 of Article 1 of the Addenda. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
80 
 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1786, Jan. 21, 2022> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: 
Provided, That the following amended provisions shall enter into force on the dates according to the 
following classifications: 
1. 
Amended provisions of Articles 14, 15, 45-4, Subparagraphs 3-2, 3-3, 8 (d), 9 (g), 12 (f), 
20-2, 26-2 of Annex 8 II, Subparagraph 5 of Annex 9 II, and Form 11: January 21, 2022; 
2. 
Amended provisions of Articles 18, 18-2 through 18-5, 27, 33, 54-4, 56-2, 57, 
Subparagraph 5, Subparagraphs 5-2 through 5-8 of Annex 8 II, Subparagraph 7 of Annex 
10, Form 16, Forms 16-2 through 16-4, and Form 17: February 18, 2022. 
 
Article 2 (Applicability to Sealing of Medical Devices) The amended provision of Article 45-4 
shall begin to apply to the medical devices manufactured or imported after the enforcement date 
following Subparagraph 1 of Article 1 of the Addenda. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1819, Jul. 20, 2022> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation: 
Provided, That the following amended provisions shall enter into force on the dates according to the 
following classifications: 
1. 
Class II, III, IV medical devices: July 21, 2022; 
2. 
Class I medical devices: July 1, 2023. 
 
Article 2 (Applicability to Standards for Administrative Dispositions) The amended provisions of 
the latter part of Subparagraph 2 (a) of Annex 8 I and the latter part of Subparagraph 3 of Annex 9 I 
shall begin to apply to the first violation conducted after this Rule enters into force. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1841, Dec. 19, 2022> (Prime Ministerial Decree Partially Amending 
Three Statutes to Expand the Scope of Recognized Practical Experience Required for 
Qualification Acquisition, etc.) 
This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1936, Jan. 16, 2024> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
Provided, however, that the amended provisions of Article 43 (1) shall enter into force on the date 
that is one year after its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Application of Submission of Documents Related to the Quality Manager) The amended 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
81 
 
provisions of Article 3 (1), Article 26 (1), Form 1, and Form 29 shall apply to cases where 
applications for approval or approval of changes for medical device manufacturing or import 
businesses are filed after the enforcement of this Rule. 
 
Article 3 (Application of Provisions Concerning Matters to Be Stated in Supporting Documents) 
The amended provisions of Article 43 (1) shall apply to products shipped on or after the 
enforcement date prescribed in the proviso to Article 1 of this Addenda. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1946, Mar. 8, 2024> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures for Item-Specific Manufacturing Approval Applications for 
Medical Devices for Export) Where an application for item-specific manufacturing approval has 
been filed prior to the enforcement of this Rule pursuant to former Article 4 (2) 1 (c), and the 
procedure is still in progress at the time of enforcement, such application shall be deemed to be in 
progress under the procedures for item-specific manufacturing certification or item-specific 
manufacturing notification pursuant to Article 4 (2) 2 or 3. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1971, Jul. 8, 2024> (Prime Ministerial Decree Partially Amending Five 
Statutes to Promote Public Livelihood and Economic Vitality through Temporary Regulatory 
Exemptions, etc.) 
This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1976, Aug. 7, 2024> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on August 7, 2024. Provided, 
however, that the amended provisions of Article 4 (2) 1 and 2, Article 44-2, Form 32, and Form 52 
shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Application Examples concerning Changes to Items Subject to Item-Specific 
Manufacturing Approval or Notification for Medical Devices) (1) The amended provisions of 
Article 4 (2) 1 (c) and subparagraph (3) of the same paragraph shall apply to cases where item-
specific manufacturing approval or manufacturing notification is obtained after the enforcement of 
this Rule. 
(2)  Notwithstanding the amended provisions of Article 4 (2) 1 (c) and subparagraph (3) of the 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
82 
 
same paragraph, Class I medical devices for which item-specific manufacturing approval was 
obtained under the previous provisions before the enforcement of this Rule shall remain 
subject to the previous provisions regarding item-specific manufacturing approval. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 1982, Sep. 20, 2024> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Application of Fee Reductions) The amended proviso to Article 65 (1) and the amended 
subparagraphs of the same paragraph shall apply to cases in which applications for approval, 
certification, or notifications are filed after the enforcement of this Rule. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 2029, Apr. 1, 2025> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
Provided, however, that the amended provisions of Article 3 (1) 3 (a) proviso, Article 26 (1) 2 (a) 
proviso, the back page of Form 1, and the front page of Form 29 shall enter into force on the date 
that is three months after its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Application of Exemption from Submission of Documents Verifying the Qualifications 
of the Quality Manager) The amended provisions of Article 3 (1) 3 (a) proviso, Article 26 (1) 2 (a) 
proviso, the back page of Form 1, and the front page of Form 29 shall apply to cases where 
applications for approval or approval of changes for medical device manufacturing businesses are 
filed on or after the enforcement date prescribed in the proviso to Article 1 of this Addenda. 
 
Article 3 (Application of Fee Reductions for Newly Developed Medical Devices, etc.) (1) The 
amended provisions of Article 65 (1) 3 (limited to the part related to subparagraph 19 of Annex 10) 
shall apply to cases where applications for prior review of technical documents, etc. for newly 
developed 
medical 
devices 
are 
filed 
after 
the 
enforcement 
of 
this 
Rule. 
(2) Notwithstanding the amended provisions of Article 65 (1) 3 (limited to the part related to 
subparagraph 3-2 of Annex 10), fee reductions for manufacturing or import approval of newly 
developed medical devices applied for prior to the enforcement of this Rule shall be governed by 
the previous provisions. 
 
Article 4 (Transitional Measures concerning Prior Review Fees for Newly Developed Medical 
Devices) Notwithstanding the amended provisions of subparagraphs 3-2 and 19 of Annex 10 and 
the remarks column of the same Annex, fees for manufacturing or import approval of newly 
developed medical devices, or for preliminary review of technical documents, etc. for newly 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
83 
 
developed medical devices, applied for prior to the enforcement of this Rule shall be governed by 
the previous provisions. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 2039, Jul. 24, 2025> 
This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 2044, Aug. 1, 2025> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Rule shall enter into force on August 1, 2025. 
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures concerning Records of Medical Devices Subject to Tracking 
Management) Where a user submits to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety records prepared 
before the enforcement of this Rule pursuant to former Article 50 (1) 2 in accordance with Article 
50 (2), such submission shall be governed by the previous provisions, notwithstanding the amended 
provisions of Article 50 (1) 2. 
 
 
ADDENDA <Act No. 2060, Oct. 31, 2025> (Prime Ministerial Decree Partially Amending Six 
Statutes to Reflect Government Organization Restructuring) 
This Rule shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
84 
 
■ 
ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT [Annex 1]  
<Amended on May 1, 2020> 
 
Standards and Procedures for Medical Device Classification and Designation of Classes 
(Related to Article 2) 
 
1. 
Standards for the Classification of Medical Devices 
A. The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall classify medical devices into any of the 
following four classes through deliberation by the Medical Device Committee 
according to the purpose of use and the degree of potential risk to human body. In 
such case, if a medical device falls under two or more of the following classes, it 
shall be classified into the class of the highest risk: 
1) 
Class I: Medical devices with little potential risk; 
2) 
Class II: Medical devices with low potential risk; 
3) 
Class III: Medical devices with moderate potential risk; 
4) 
Class IV: Medical devices with high risk. 
B. 
The standard for deciding the degree of potential risk of Item A are as follows: 
1) 
Duration of contact with human body; 
2) 
Degree of invasiveness; 
3) 
Whether a device delivers medicine or energy to the patient; 
4) 
Whether a device has biological impact on the patient. 
C. 
Deleted. <May 1, 2020> 
D. Deleted. <May 1, 2020> 
E. 
Detailed standards for the purpose and use and potential risk under Items A and B 
shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
 
2. 
Procedures for Designation of Class 
 
The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall classify medical devices into Section, 
Division, or Group according to the classification of the following items. In such case, 
items classified as Section and Division shall be publicly notified, and items classified as 
Group shall be publicly notified by assigning classification to each item: 
A. Section: Classification of medical devices into each instrument/machine, device, or material; 
B. 
Division: Classification of each Section into product groups with similar raw 
material, manufacturing process, and quality control system: 
C. 
Group: Classification of each Division into each item where functions are 
demonstrated independently. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
85 
 
3. 
Application for Class Re-Designation and Designation Procedures 
A. The Minister of Food and Drug Safety may re-designate the class of each item 
through deliberation by the Medical Device Committee when there is an application 
for re-designation from the party concerned, etc., or when it is deemed there is a 
need for such re-designation. 
B. 
In cases of re-designation, the degree of potential risk and validity of such re-
designation under the following standards shall be examined: 
1) 
Whether the description of each item and purpose, use, principle, feature, 
function, etc. of the relevant medical device correspond to similar items; 
2) 
Whether safety and performance of each item are fully secured compared to the 
items already classified to be designated, and managed. 
C. 
A person who intends to apply for class re-designation shall submit an application in 
Form 54 to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, along with the following data: 
1) 
Data on technical document, etc.; 
2) 
Data 
on 
comparative 
analysis 
of 
technical 
characteristics 
including 
structure/operational principle, performance, purpose of use, methods of use, etc. 
with other devices that are similar to medical devices subject to class re-
designation. 
D. Upon receiving an application for class re-designation under the provisions of Item C, 
The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall review and decide within 90 days and 
notify the applicant of the result, and notify the public thereof. 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
86 
 
■ 
ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT [Annex 2]  
<Amended on Jan. 21, 2022> 
 
Standards for Facilities and Manufacturing and Quality Management Systems 
(Related to Article 8) 
 
1. 
Facility Standards 
A. Facility of Manufacturing Site 
1) 
A person who intends to obtain a manufacturing approval for medical devices 
(excluding software medical devices) or a manufacturer shall prepare and 
maintain the following facilities and equipment at a manufacturing site and 
shall inspect them periodically to prevent any trouble in manufacturing and 
quality management of medical devices: 
a) 
Production area where manufacturing processes are conducted; 
b) 
Laboratory where the quality management of raw materials, materials, and 
products are conducted; 
c) 
Storage area where raw materials, materials, and products are stored; 
d) 
Facilities and equipment required for manufacturing and quality management. 
2) 
A person who intends to obtain a manufacturing approval for software medical 
devices or a manufacturer shall prepare and maintain premises, facilities, and 
equipment for establishing and implementing a quality management system (QMS) 
under items 2 A and B at a manufacturing site and shall inspect them 
periodically to prevent any trouble in manufacturing and quality management 
of software medical devices. 
B. 
Standards for Manufacturing Site Facility 
 
A Production area and a storage area under items A 1) a) and b) shall satisfy 
the following standards: 
1) 
Production area 
a) 
A production area shall have facilities capable of preventing mice, harmful 
insects, dust, etc. 
b) 
The ceiling of a production area where products requiring sterilization are 
manufactured shall be finished to prevent dust from falling, and its 
floor and walls shall be maintained smooth so that dust or dirt can be 
easily removed, and the surface of its ceiling, floor, and walls shall be made 
to be resistant to cleaning processes using disinfecting sprays. 
c) 
A workbench shall be placed in a production area; In cases of 
manufacturing products requiring sterilization, sterilization facilities shall be 
placed. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
87 
 
2) 
A storage area shall be equipped so as to store raw materials, materials, and 
products hygienically and safely. 
C. 
Entrustment of Manufacturing Process and Testing 
 
A person who intends to obtain a manufacturing business approval or a manufacturer 
may entrust manufacturing processes of medical devices or testing for quality 
management to a medical device testing and inspection institution, a non-clinical trial 
institution, or a manufacturer that has obtained certification of conformity under 
subparagraph 2. 
D. Management Responsibility of Manufacturer for Trustee Entrusted with Manufacturing 
Processes or Testing A manufacturer who has entrusted any manufacturing process 
or testing shall thoroughly manage and supervise the trustee according to the 
following items so that the manufacturing process or testing may be performed 
appropriately: 
1) 
Shall prepare a device master record for quality management, provide it to the 
trustee, and have the trustee record matters concerning manufacturing process 
and quality management for each product based on the device master record; 
2) 
Shall have the trustee submit records on the manufacturing process and quality 
management of each product under item A, and retain them until one year 
from the expiration date of the product; Provided, That in cases of a product 
with no expiration date established, such records shall be preserved for a period 
corresponding to the life span of the product. 
 
2. 
Standards for Manufacturing and Quality Management System 
A. Quality Management System 
 
A manufacturer shall establish a quality management system (QMS) to efficiently 
manage the organization, responsibilities, procedures, processes, resources, etc. for the 
manufacturing and quality management and prepare documents related to the system 
in writing in forms of a quality manual, etc. 
B. 
Documentation and Implementation of QMS 
 
A manufacturer shall document the details of a QMS, such as procedures and 
methods for the following matters, and implement the QMS accordingly: 
1) 
Quality policy; 
2) 
Contract review; 
3) 
Design management; 
4) 
Document and data management; 
5) 
Purchase management; 
6) 
Product identification and tracking management; 
7) 
Manufacturing process management; 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
88 
 
8) 
Testing and inspection of purchases and products; 
9) 
Management of non-conforming products; 
10) Management of measuring equipment; 
11) Corrective and preventive actions; 
12) Matters concerning product handling, storage, packaging, preservation, and 
delivery; 
13) Education and training; 
14) Other matters necessary for manufacturing and quality management, such as 
product validation, etc. 
C. 
Responsibilities and Authorities 
 
A manufacturer shall define and document the responsibilities and authorities of 
each person, and relationship among these persons who may affect the quality of 
products. 
D. Management of Quality Records 
1) 
A manufacturer shall document and manage the procedures for identification, 
collection, indexing, perusal, storage, maintenance, and disposal of various records 
necessary for manufacturing and quality management. 
2) 
All quality records shall be stored in a facility where any damage, loss, or 
deterioration can be prevented in a manner that enables quick searching for 
necessary data. 
E. 
Quality Inspection, Etc. 
1) 
Internal Quality Inspection 
 
A manufacturer shall, to conform with these standards, document the procedures for 
planning and conducting internal quality inspections, conduct such inspections 
periodically, and use the results for manufacturing and quality management. 
2) 
External Quality Inspection 
 
According to Article 27 (1) 11 of the Rule, a manufacturer shall receive a periodical 
external inspection on conformity with these good manufacturing practices every 
three years as prescribed and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety. 
F. 
Certification of Conformity 
1) 
A person who intends to obtain certification for conformity with these standards or 
receive a periodic inspection shall apply to the head of a quality management 
examination agency under Article 28 of the Act as prescribed by the Minister of 
Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. 
2) 
Upon receipt of an application under 1), the head of a quality management 
examination agency shall conduct a document review and a fact-finding survey 
of the manufacturing site of the applicant as prescribed and publicly notified 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
89 
 
by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety: Provided, That this fact-finding survey 
may not be required if approved by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
3) 
Where, as a result of the document review and on-site inspection under subparagraph 
2, it is deemed to conform to the Medical Device Good Manufacturing Practices 
(GMP) prescribed by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, the head of a quality 
management examination agency shall issue a Certificate of Conformity with the 
Medical Device Good Manufacturing Practices and shall notify the results to the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the Commissioner of the Regional Office of 
Food and Drug Safety 
4) 
The Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the Commissioner of the Regional 
Office of Food and Drug Safety shall take administrative measures following 
relevant regulations according to the inspection results reported by the quality 
management examination agency. 
5) 
A person who intends to obtain a certification for conformity with the Standards or 
receive a periodic inspection on such compliance shall pay all or part of the 
expenses incurred for the process. 
G. Detailed Standards 
 
Details of manufacturing and quality management processes and matters not specified in 
the Standards shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety. 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
90 
 
■ 
ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT [Annex 3]  
<Amended on Jun. 24, 2021> 
 
Good Clinical Practice for Medical Devices  
(Related to Article 24 (1)) 
 
1. 
Purpose 
 
The purpose of this Good Clinical Practice (GCP) is to obtain accurate and reliable data and 
results and ensure that the protection of the rights and interests of the subjects and the 
guarantee of confidentiality are appropriately achieved during any clinical trial, by 
specifying standards for planning, implementing, monitoring, inspecting, data recording 
and analysis, preparing the clinical study report necessary for conducting such a clinical 
trial, etc. 
 
2. 
Definitions 
 
The terms used in this GCP are defined as follows: 
a. 
The term “clinical trial/study” refers to a test or research on human subjects to 
evidence the safety and effectiveness of a medical device used in clinical trials. 
b. 
The term “multicenter trial” refers to a clinical trial conducted at 2 or more 
clinical trial institutions under 1 clinical trial protocol. 
c. 
The term “non-clinical study” refers to a biomedical study not performed on 
human subjects. 
d. 
The term “clinical trial protocol (hereinafter, “protocol“)” refers to a document 
describing the purpose, subject, test (research) method, statistical considerations, 
relevant organizations, etc. of a clinical trial to provide the background or grounds for 
the relevant clinical trial. 
e. 
The term “protocol amendment” refers to a document stating changes in the content 
of a clinical trial protocol or clearly restating the ambiguous parts of the initial 
clinical trial protocol. 
f. 
The term “case report form” (CRF) refers to a document printed or electronically stored 
for recording information requested in a clinical trial protocol for each subject and 
delivering it to the sponsor of the clinical trial (hereinafter, “sponsor”). 
g. 
The term “clinical trial/study report (hereinafter, “CSR“)” refers to a document that 
describes the results obtained from a clinical trial which are integrated in clinical 
and statistical aspects. 
h. 
The term “interim clinical trial/study report” (hereinafter, “interim report”) refers to a 
document reporting interim results based on analyses conducted during a clinical 
trial. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
91 
 
i. 
The term “investigational device” refers to a study device and comparator used in a 
clinical trial. 
j. 
The term “study device” refers to a medical device excluding comparator among 
investigational devices. 
k. 
The term “comparator” refers to a mock product or a medical device under 
development or on the market, which is used in a clinical trial for being compared 
with a study device. 
l. 
The term “adverse event (AE)” refers to any unintended sign (including abnormal 
laboratory test results, etc.), symptom, or disease that occurs in a subject during a 
clinical trial, which does not necessarily has a causal relationship with the relevant 
investigational device. 
m. The term “adverse device effect (ADE)” refers to any harmful and unintended 
reactions arising out of use of an investigational device, where the causal relationship 
between these reactions and the device cannot be denied. 
n. 
The term “serious AE/ADE” refers to any of the following cases among adverse events 
or adverse device effects resulting from the medical device used in a clinical trial: 
1) 
Resulting in death or is life-threatening; 
2) 
Causing a subject to be hospitalized or extending the hospitalization of a 
subject; 
3) 
Resulting in a permanent or significant disability or decrease in function; 
4) 
Resulting deformity or abnormality in a fetus. 
o. 
The term “unexpected adverse device effect” refers to deviation from the aspect of 
adverse device effects or the degree of harm considering the available medical-device-
related information such as investigators’ brochure or medical device package inserts. 
p. 
The term “subject/trial subject” (hereinafter, “subject”) refers to a person who 
participates in a clinical trial by being subject to the application of investigational devices 
or being included in a control group. 
q. 
The term “vulnerable subjects” refer to subjects whose voluntary decision to 
participate in a clinical trial may be affected by their expectation of benefits related 
to their participation, or their fear of disadvantages from their superiors in the 
organizational hierarchy in cases of refusing to participate (e.g. students at medical 
colleges, oriental medicine colleges, pharmaceutical colleges, dental colleges, and nursing 
colleges; workers at medical institutions and research institutes; employees at 
manufacturing companies; military personnel; prisoners, etc.), patients suffering from 
incurable diseases, people housed in any of group facilities under Article 22, the 
unemployed, the poor, patients faced with emergencies, racial minorities, vagrants, the 
homeless, refugees, minors, or other subjects unable to give consent of their free will. 
r. 
The term “well-being of the trial subjects” refers to physical and mental well-being 
of subjects participating in a clinical trial. 
s. 
The term “subject identification code” refers to a unique identifier assigned to 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
92 
 
each subject by the principal investigator to protect the identity of the subject, 
which is used instead of the name of the subject when the principal investigator 
reports adverse events or other data related to the clinical trial. 
t. 
The term “investigators” collectively refer to a principal investigator, a subinvestigator or 
a coordinating investigator of a clinical trial. 
u. 
The term “coordinating committee” refers to a committee organized by the sponsor to 
coordinate the implementation of a multicenter trial. 
v. 
The term “coordinating investigator” refers to a principal investigator from each 
clinical trial institution with the authority and duty to coordinate opinions among 
investigators participating in a multicenter trial. 
w. The term “subject information sheet” refers to a document provided to subjects by a 
principal investigator that includes any information related to a clinical trial in order 
to obtain consent of the subjects on their participation in the trial. 
x. 
The term “subject’s representative” refers to a person with parental authority, spouse, 
or guardian of a subject, who can make a decision regarding the subject‘s participation 
in a clinical trial on behalf of the subject. 
y. 
The term “source data” refers to any information contained in an original document or an 
official copy of an original document stating relevant clinical findings, observations, 
other actions, etc. necessary to reproduce or evaluate a clinical trial. 
z. 
The term “source document” refers to any document (including electronic documents), 
data, and records that contain source data, such as hospital records, medical records, 
subject records, notes, pathology test results, subjects’ diaries, evaluation checklists, 
medical device dispensing records, data recorded on automated test equipment, test 
certificates and official copies thereof, microfiches (pieces of film containing 
microphotographs of each page of a book), microfilm, radiological test data, magnetic 
tapes, pathology laboratory records, etc. 
aa. The term “essential document” refers to any document (including electronic 
documents) used for the individual or general evaluation of the implementation of a 
clinical trial and the quality of data obtained therefrom. 
bb. The term “standard operating procedure” (SOP) refers to a document that describes 
in detail the relevant procedures and methods of implementing a specific task for 
consistent implementation of such a task according to a standardized method. 
cc. The term “investigator’s brochure” refers to a compilation of clinical and non-clinical 
data related to investigational devices, which is provided to subjects of a clinical trial. 
dd. The term “quality assurance for clinical trial (hereinafter, “quality assurance”)” refers to 
a systematic confirmation conducted according to a plan prepared in advance to 
ensure whether all matters related to a clinical trial, data collection, recording and 
document preparation, reporting, etc. comply with this GCP, Article 24 of the 
Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act, and other related statues and 
regulations. 
ee. The term “quality control for clinical trial data (hereinafter, “quality control“)” refers 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
93 
 
to an action or a technique thereof of verifying in detail that all actions or 
activities related to a clinical trial are being implemented at an appropriate level 
according to a quality assurance system. 
ff. 
The term “blinding/masking” refers to a procedure that prevents a person or a 
department participating in a clinical trial from finding out about the assigned treatment 
method. 
gg. The term “randomization” refers to assignment of subjects of a clinical trial to each 
treatment group according to the principle of probability in order to reduce bias that 
may occur during the trial. 
 
3. 
Basic Principles of Clinical Trial 
a. 
Clinical trials shall be conducted according to the ethical principles under the 
Declaration of Helsinki, this GCP, Article 24, and other related statues and regulations. 
b. 
Clinical trials shall be conducted only where the benefits that can be obtained from 
the trial for subjects themselves and the society exceed the risk, or the risk can be 
justified, in full consideration of the risks and inconveniences expected from the clinical 
trial. 
c. 
Rights, safety, and welfare of subjects shall be prioritized over the interests of 
science and the society. 
d. 
Clinical and non-clinical information on investigational devices shall be adequate for a 
clinical trial to be conducted. 
e. 
Clinical trials shall be scientifically appropriate, and protocols shall be prepared clearly 
and minutely. 
f. 
Clinical trials shall be conducted under a clinical trial protocol approved by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
g. 
Medical procedure or decision to be performed on subjects shall be made under 
responsibility of a physician, a dentist, or a doctor of oriental medicine. 
h. 
All people participating in a clinical trial shall receive appropriate education and 
training for their duties and have relevant experiences. 
i. 
Vonluntary consent to participation to a clinical trial shall be obtained before such 
participation. 
j. 
All information related to a clinical trial shall be recorded, handled, and restored so as 
to be accurately reported, interpreted, and checked. 
k. 
All records related to the identity of subjects shall be handled under related statues 
and regulations to ensure confidentiality. 
l. 
Investigational devices shall be managed according to the standards for facilities and 
manufacturing and quality management systems in Annex 2 and used according to a 
clinical trial protocol approved by the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. 
m. Clinical trials shall be conducted under a system where quality assurance may be achieved. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
94 
 
4. 
Scope of Application 
 
This GCP shall apply to clinical trials on medical devices conducted under Article 10 of 
the Act. 
 
5. 
Clinical Trial Contracts and Clinical Trial Institutions 
a. 
Clinical trial contracts 
1) 
A sponsor shall conclude a clinical trial contract with the head of a clinical trial 
institution in writing, and if he/she intends to conduct a multicenter clinical trial, 
the sponsor may collectively conclude the contract with the head of 1 
institution. 
2) 
A clinical trial contract shall include matters concerning finances of a clinical 
trial, such as the scale and payment method of research expenses, return of 
unused research expenses for premature discontinuation and suspension of the 
trial; matters concerning the delegation and division of duties; and matters 
concerning obligations of the sponsor and the head of the clinical trial 
institution. 
b. 
Head of clinical trial institutions 
1) 
The head of clinical trial institutions shall establish an institutional review board 
(hereinafter “IRB”) according to subparagraph 6 in the clinical trial institution for 
reviewing the implementation of clinical trials, etc.; appoint members of the IRB; 
and establish regulations on administrative procedures, etc. necessary for the 
implementation of the clinical trial. 
2) 
The head of the institution shall ensure that the IRB may be operated independently. 
3) 
The head of the institution shall prepare a standard operating procedure (hereinafter, 
“SOP of the institution”) that outlines the following matters for the 
implementation of the IRB’s duties: 
a) 
Matters concerning the composition of the IRB such as the list of the 
names and qualifications of its members; 
b) 
Authority of the IRB; 
c) 
Methods of convening, scheduling, and conducting meetings; 
d) 
Methods of reviewing clinical trials and review deadline; 
e) 
Matters concerning determination of a review cycle under the latter part of 
subparagraph 6 (a) 4); 
f) 
Approval on expedited review under subparagraph 6 (a) 10) and minor changes 
of a clinical trial protocol under subparagraph 6 (a) 10) d); 
g) 
 Prohibition of subjects’ participation in a clinical trial prior to the 
approval of the protocol and the protocol amendment; 
h) 
Prohibition of implementation of a clinical trial prior to the approval of the 
protocol amendment, where any change has been made in the original 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
95 
 
clinical trial protocol; Provided, That the cases where it is required to 
eliminate immediate risk factors occurred to subjects or where the changes 
in the clinical trial protocol are minor under subparagraph 6 (a) 10) d) shall 
be excluded; 
i) 
Reporting procedures and handling method on the matters falling under any 
of the following that a principal investigator shall promptly report to the 
IRB: 
(1) Matters concerning a clinical trial conducted differently from the 
protocol to eliminate immediate risk factors occurred to subjects under 
the proviso of item h); 
(2) Matters concerning changes that may increase the risk for subjects or may 
have significant impact on the implementation of the relevant clinical 
trial; 
(3) Matters concerning an unexpected serious adverse device effect; 
(4) Matters concerning new information that may adversely affect the 
safety of subjects or the implementation of clinical trials. 
j) 
Matters concerning any of the following that the IRB shall promptly 
notify the principal investigator in writing: 
(1) Decisions and opinions on the relevant trial and the grounds for such 
decisions and opinions, and notification procedures; 
(2) Procedures for filing an objection against the decisions of the IRB. 
k) 
Qualifications of the principal investigator, subinvestigator, and coordinating 
investigator; 
l) 
Matters necessary for the composition and operation of the IRB other 
than the matters prescribed in items a) through k). 
4) 
The head of the institution shall secure clinical laboratories, facilities, and 
specialized personnel required for conducting a clinical trial, along with the 
facilities and personnel to take necessary measures in case of an emergency. 
5) 
The head of the institution shall require the IRB to provide active cooperation 
where the sponsor of the relevant clinical trial or the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety requests a perusal of the SOP of the institution concerning the operation of 
the IRB or submission of the list of IRB members and documents on their 
qualifications. 
6) 
Upon receipt of a notification of monitoring under subparagraph 8 (e-2), a 
notification of inspection under Subparagraph 8 (f-2), or a request for any 
perusal under Subparagraph 7 (i) 7), the head of the institution shall require the 
relevant principal investigators and departments to provide active cooperation. 
7) 
The head of the institution shall designate a manager among the personnel of 
the institution for proper management of investigational devices, and in cases of 
a multicenter clinical trial, each clinical trial institution concerned shall designate 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
96 
 
a manager: Provided, That upon the request of the principal investigator 
depending on the characteristics of the relevant clinical trial, the head may have 
the principal investigator or subinvestigators manage investigational devices through 
consultations with the IRB. 
8) 
The head of the institution shall designate a person in charge of retaining 
records and data transferred from the IRB and the principal investigator according 
to subparagraph 6 (a) 12) and subparagraph 7 (i) 
6) in order to store such records and data: Provided, That if there are other statues 
and regulations regarding the storage of records and data, the relevant statues 
and regulations shall be applied. 
9) 
Where the IRB has decided on the premature discontinuation or suspension of a 
clinical trial, the head of the institution shall immediately notify the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety of the decision and submit a detailed statement of reasons for 
the premature discontinuation or suspension. 
10) The head of the institution shall submit clinical trial management data, including 
data concerning the IRB, personnel related to clinical trials, clinical trial 
implementation status, etc. by the end of February every year as decided by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
 
6. 
Institutional Review Board (IRB) 
a. 
Duties of the IRB 
1) 
The IRB shall protect the rights, safety, and welfare of subjects and review 
whether it is justifiable to have vulnerable subjects participate in a clinical trial. 
2) 
The IRB shall review the documents submitted related to the clinical trial by 
the principal investigator under subparagraph 7 (d) 3) within a deadline 
specified in the SOP of the institution, and shall record and store the title 
of the clinical trial, reviewed documents, review date, and opinions of 
reviewers according to the following classification, and shall notify the 
principal investigator of the review results: 
a) 
Approved or approved with correction required; 
b) 
Supplementation required; 
c) 
Disapproved; 
d) 
Discontinuance or suspension of clinical trial. 
3) 
The IRB shall review whether the principal investigator has appropriate experience 
and qualifications to conduct the relevant clinical trial based on his/her career 
and other experiences. 
4) 
The IRB shall conduct a review of ongoing clinical trials at least once a year. 
In such cases, the frequency of such review is determined by the IRB in 
consideration of the degree of risk that may be posed to the subjects. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
97 
 
5) 
The IRB may request the head of the institution or the principal investigator to 
suspend an ongoing clinical trial if it is conducted differently from the IRB’s 
requirements or decisions, or when an unexpected serious risk is posed to the 
subjects. 
6) 
If it is deemed necessary to protect the rights, safety, and welfare of subjects, the 
IRB may request the sponsor to provide additional information in addition to 
the information under subparagraph 7 (h) 10) to the subjects. 
7) 
Where a clinical trial is identified in its protocol as one that prior consent 
from the subjects or their representatives is unobtainable, such as a trial 
conducted on emergency patients, the IRB shall review whether the submitted 
protocol and other related documents, etc. take full account of the ethical aspects 
of the clinical trial. 
8) 
If a monetary reward is provided to subjects for participating in a clinical trial, 
the IRB shall review the amount of the reward and payment methods, and 
whether it has an unreasonable influence on the subjects’ participation in the 
clinical trial. In such cases, the IRB shall review whether it is appropriate to 
offer the reward concerning the subjects’ degree and period of participation in 
the clinical trial and whether the reward is provided under the condition that the 
subjects participate in the clinical trial until it is completed. 
9) 
If a monetary reward is provided to subjects for participating in a clinical trial, 
the IRB shall confirm whether information of the reward such as the method, 
amount, and schedule of payment, etc. is clearly stated in the subject 
information sheet or other documents provided to the subject. In such cases, the 
IRB shall examine whether there is a measure for providing a reward to the 
subjects who failed to complete the clinical trial. 
10) The IRB shall conduct an expedited review in any of the following cases: 
a) 
Measures against adverse events reported under subparagraph 8 (d); 
b) 
Processing regarding reports on the completion of clinical trials under Article 
24 (2); 
c) 
Processing regarding corrections of a clinical trial protocol (including an 
amendment protocol) approved by the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety; 
d) 
Approval of minor changes in a clinical trial protocol such as changes in 
administrative procedures including change of monitors, subinvestigators, 
emergency contact numbers, etc., or additions and deletions of test items that 
do not affect the efficacy and safety of the clinical trial; 
e) 
Review of a clinical trial protocol supplemented and submitted according 
to the results of the review by the IRB; 
f) 
Processing of other matters deemed as requiring an expedited review regarding 
the implementation of the clinical trial as specified in the SOP of the 
institution. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
98 
 
11) If there is any request from a sponsor or the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety for a perusal of the SOP of the institution or the 
submission of the list of IRB members and documents on their 
qualifications, the IRB shall accept such a request. 
12) The IRB shall retain the list of its members, review records, and other related data 
or documents: Provided, That upon receiving a report on the completion of a 
clinical trial (including a premature discontinuation report) from the principal 
investigator under subparagraph 7 (m), the IRB shall transfer the relevant data 
and documents to the person in charge of keeping them under subparagraph 5 
(b) 8). 
b. 
Composition, function, and operation of the IRB 
1) 
The IRB shall consist of 5 or more members with experience and qualifications 
suitable for reviewing and evaluating the ethical, scientific, and medical aspects 
of a clinical trial, who are appointed by the head of the clinical trial institution. 
In such cases, the members shall include at least 1 person who has not majored 
in medicine, dentistry, oriental medicine, pharmacy, nursing, or biomedical 
engineering, and at least 1 person who has no personal stake in the relevant 
clinical trial institution. 
2) 
The chairman of the IRB shall be elected from among its members, and anyone who 
has relation with the investigator and sponsor of the clinical trial shall not be 
allowed to participate in the decision-making process or present their opinions for 
the clinical trial. 
3) 
The IRB shall establish and retain the list of its members and documents 
regarding their qualifications. 
4) 
The IRB shall perform all its duties according to the SOP of the institution, 
prepare and keep minute records of all its activities and meetings, and comply 
with this GCP, Article 24, and other related statues and regulations. 
5) 
All decisions of the IRB shall be made at a previously notified meeting which 
satisfies the quorum for voting as specified in the SOP of the institution, and the 
chairperson shall inform the members of the meeting agenda, meeting date, etc. in 
advance. 
6) 
Only members who have participated in the review process for a clinical trial 
shall be entitled to participate in the decision-making process or present their 
opinions for the trial. 
7) 
The principal investigator may provide information to the IRB on all matters of 
the relevant clinical trial, but shall not exert influence on the IRB members 
or participate in the decision-making process of matters related to the clinical 
trial. 
8) 
The IRB may seek advice from a person with expertise in the relevant field to 
facilitate the review process. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
99 
 
c. 
Operation of the IRB 
 
IRBs shall comply with the SOP of the institution for operation of the IRB. 
d. 
IRB in multicenter clinical trials 
1) 
Where a clinical trial is conducted by multiple clinical trial institutions, a meeting of 
the IRBs shall be jointly held (hereinafter, “joint IRB”) through the agreement 
between the heads of the clinical trial institutions for conducting a review or 
decision, or the IRBs of the individual institutions shall approve the results of 
review or decision by the IRB of another institution by making a decision. 
2) 
Items a through c shall apply mutatis mutandis to the duties, organization, and 
operation of a joint IRB. 
3) 
Matters reviewed and decided by a joint IRB or matters reviewed and decided by 
the IRB of another clinical trial institution and approved by the IRBs of the 
individual institutions shall be deemed to have been reviewed and decided by 
the IRBs of the individual clinical trial institutions. 
e. 
Entrustment of review 
1) 
Where the relevant clinical trial institution does not have an IRB or it is deemed 
necessary by the IRB established in the institution, the head of the institution 
may entrust a review of a clinical trial protocol, etc. to an IRB of another 
clinical institution under Article 21 (1) 1 or 2 which is designated by the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety (hereinafter, “designated IRB”). 
2) 
Items a through c and item f shall apply mutatis mutandis to the duties, organization, 
and operation of a designated IRB. 
3) 
Matters determined by a designated IRB shall be deemed to have been determined 
by the clinical trial institution that entrusted the review to the IRB. 
f. 
Records 
 
The IRB shall retain the records related to a clinical trial such as records on the 
implement of the trial, list of names, occupations, and affiliations of persons involved in 
the trial, documents submitted to the IRB, minutes of meetings, letters, etc. for the period 
specified in Article 24 (3), and the investigator and sponsor of the trial, and the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety may request the IRB to submit such clinical trial 
implementation records and the list of persons involved in the trial. 
 
7. 
Investigator 
a. 
Qualifications, etc. for investigators 
1) 
Investigators shall satisfy education, training, and experience requirements for 
conducting clinical trials according to the SOP of a clinical trial institution for 
the proper implementation of a clinical trial. 
2) 
Investigators shall have detailed knowledge of proper use investigational devices 
specified in clinical trial protocols, investigators’ brochures, and other medical-

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
100 
 
device-related information provided by a sponsor. 
3) 
Investigators shall be fully aware of and comply with this GCP, Article 24, and 
other related statues and regulations. 
4) 
The principal investigator of a clinical trial and the head of the clinical trial 
institution shall comply with the monitoring under Item s of subparagraph 8 and 
inspection under Item u of the said subparagraph at the request of the sponsor. 
5) 
Where an important task related to a clinical trial is entrusted to subinvestigators, the 
principal investigator shall secure and maintain a list of such subinvestigators. 
b. 
Securing of resources required for clinical trials 
1) 
A principal investigator shall properly evidence that subjects necessary for a 
clinical trial can be enrolled within the subject enrollment period agreed with the 
sponsor based on past medical records, etc., and shall provide the relevant 
evidencing data upon request from the sponsor. 
2) 
A principal investigator shall assign sufficient time to each subject to properly 
conduct and complete a clinical trial during the period agreed with the 
sponsor. 
3) 
A principal investigator shall secure an adequate number of subinvestigators, 
equipment, and facilities required to conduct a clinical trial properly and safely 
during the clinical trial period. 
4) 
A principal investigator shall ensure that the subinvestigators have detailed 
knowledge of the clinical trial protocol, information on investigational devices, 
and duties and tasks related to the clinical trial. 
c. 
Investigators’ duty to protect the subjects 
1) 
All medical decisions related to a clinical trial on subjects shall be made by the 
principal investigator or subinvestigators qualified as physicians, dentists, or doctors 
of oriental medicine. 
2) 
During or after a clinical trial, the principal investigator shall ensure that the 
subjects receive appropriate medical treatment for all adverse events that may 
occur in the clinical trial (including clinically significant abnormalities in 
laboratory test results), and shall inform the subject if the medical treatment is 
required for the subject’s intercurrent disease that the principal investigator 
becomes aware of. 
3) 
If a subject has a family doctor, the principal investigator may notify such 
family doctor of the subject’s participation in the clinical trial under the consent 
of the subject. 
4) 
A subject does not have to disclose the reason for his/her withdrawal from a 
clinical trial before its completion, but the principal investigator shall make 
efforts to ascertain the reason within the scope where the subject’s rights are not 
infringed. 
d. 
Information exchange between the IRBs and principal investigators 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
101 
 
1) 
Before conducting a clinical trial, the principal investigator shall have the IRB 
review various information provided to the subjects in writing such as a clinical 
trial protocol, a consent form (including an amended one), documents on methods 
for recruiting subjects (including advertisements, etc.), and a subject information 
sheet, and where the implementation of the clinical trial is approved by the IRB 
(including approvals with changes 
or 
deferred 
approval), 
the 
principal 
investigator shall report the content of the review notice to the head of the 
institution and provide it to the sponsor after obtaining confirmation in writing 
from the head of the institution. 
2) 
Where a principal investigator intends to obtain the IRB’s approval for a clinical 
trial protocol, he or she shall submit a copy of the latest investigator’s brochure 
to the IRB. If the investigator’s brochure is amended during the clinical trial, 
the principal investigator shall submit a copy thereof to the IRB. 
3) 
A principal investigator shall submit the following documents to the IRB before 
conducting a clinical trial and shall have the IRB review such documents: 
a) 
Clinical trial protocol (including a protocol amendment); 
b) 
Informed consent form; 
c) 
Information provided to subjects in writing (including a subject information 
sheet); 
d) 
Procedure for recruiting subjects (including advertisements, etc.); 
e) 
Investigator’s brochure; 
f) 
Safety information; 
g) 
Information on the rewards to be provided to subjects; 
h) 
Principal investigator’s career and experience. 
4) 
The principal investigator shall promptly report to the IRB on the matters 
specified in Subparagraph 5 (b) 3) i (1) through (4). 
5) 
The IRB shall promptly notify the principal investigator in writing of the 
matters specified in Subparagraph 5 (b) 3) j (1) and (2). 
e. 
Compliance with clinical trial protocols 
1) 
The investigator shall conduct a clinical trial in compliance with the clinical 
trial protocol agreed upon by the sponsor in writing and approved by the IRB 
and the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
2) 
The principal investigator shall not conduct a clinical trial differently from the 
protocol before obtaining prior consent from the sponsor and approval of change 
from the IRB and the Minister of Food and Drug Safety: Provided, That the 
foregoing shall not apply to the cases that fall under the proviso of 
subparagraph 5 (b) 3) h. 
3) 
The principal investigator or subinvestigator shall record all matters conducted 
differently from the approved clinical trial protocol and the reasons therefor. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
102 
 
4) 
With respect to the changes made by the principal investigator to eliminate an 
immediate risk factor to subjects under the proviso of 2) before the prior 
approval of a protocol amendment, the principal investigator shall submit 
documents on such changes of the clinical trial protocol, the reasons therefor, and 
the protocol amendment to the sponsor and IRB, and Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety and obtain their consent and approval, respectively, as soon as possible. 
f. 
Management of investigational devices 
1) 
The responsibility for the management of investigational devices shall be borne by 
the principal investigator and manager of a relevant clinical trial institution. 
2) 
The manager or the principal investigator or subinvestigator (hereinafter, 
“manager, etc.”) who is responsible for managing the investigational devices 
under the proviso of subparagraph 5 (b) 7) shall perform tasks such as accepting 
investigational devices, managing their inventory, administering such devices to 
each subject, returning such devices, etc., shall prepare records on the relevant 
matters, and shall report to the principal investigator on such matters periodically. 
3) 
The records under 2) shall be prepared for each subject, including the application 
period of medical devices, manufacturing number or serial number, use-by date or 
expiration date (only if applicable), identification code of the devices, and the 
subject’s identification code. 
4) 
Manager, etc. shall maintain medical records from which it can be confirmed 
that investigational devices are used on each subject according to the methods of 
use described in the clinical trial protocol and shall check confirm whether the 
inventory of investigational devices matches the use records. 
5) 
Investigational devices shall be stored according to the conditions specified by 
the sponsor and related statues and regulations. 
6) 
The principal investigator shall confirm whether investigational devices are used 
and managed according to the clinical trial protocol. 
7) 
The principal investigator, subinvestigator, or manager shall provide each subject 
with accurate instructions for the use of investigational devices and confirm 
whether the subjects are properly following the instructions. 
g. 
Randomization and unblinding 
1) 
If a randomization procedure is established in a clinical trial protocol, the principal 
investigator shall comply with such a procedure, and unblinding shall be 
conducted only according to the procedure specified in the protocol. 
2) 
Where unblinding is conducted accidentally or due to a serious adverse event 
during a binding clinical trial, the principal investigator shall record such fact 
and promptly inform the sponsor thereof. 
h. 
Subjects’ consent 
1) 
Subjects’ consent shall be obtained according to Article 24 (1) 4, the ethical 
principles under the Declaration of Helsinki, and this GCP, and the principal 
investigator shall obtain the IRB’s approval on documented information 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
103 
 
provided to the subjects, including a consent form, a subject’s information 
sheet, etc, prior to the initiation of the clinical trial. 
2) 
If new information regarding the clinical trial that may affect the subject’s consent is 
obtained, a consent form, a subject information sheet, and other documented 
information shall be modified accordingly and obtain approval from the IRB before 
being provided to the subjects. In such case, the principal investigator shall notify 
the subjects or their representatives promptly of such information and record 
the recipients, the corresponding date and time, and details of the notification. 
3) 
The principal investigator or the subinvestigator shall not coerce nor unduly 
influence a subject to participate in a clinical trial. 
4) 
A consent form and oral or written information regarding a clinical trial shall 
not include descriptions that restrict the rights of the subjects or their 
representatives, imply such restriction, or exempt the investigators, clinical trial 
institution, sponsor, or his/her representative from any responsibilities. 
5) 
The principal investigator or the person designated by the principal investigator shall 
fully inform the subjects of information on all aspects of the clinical trial 
including written information approved by the IRB. In such cases, if the subject is 
unable to give consent, his or representative shall be notified of such 
information. 
6) 
Terms used in a consent form and oral or written information regarding a 
clinical trial shall be simple and easy for subjects, their representatives, or 
witnesses to understand. 
7) 
Before obtaining a subject’s consent, the principal investigator or a physician, a 
dentist, or a doctor of oriental medicine designated by the principal investigator 
shall provide the subject or his/her representative with sufficient time and 
opportunity for asking questions about the details of the clinical trial, deciding 
on the participation, and shall sincerely answer all questions asked by the 
subject or his/her representative concerning the clinical trial. 
8) 
Before a subject participates in the clinical trial, a consent form shall be signed by 
the subject or his/her representative, the principal investigator who has obtained 
his/her consent, or a physician, a dentist, or a doctor of oriental medicine 
designated by the principal investigator, with the date of the signature written in 
their own handwriting. 
9) 
Where a subject or his/her representative is unable to read a consent form, a 
subject information sheet, or other documented information, the entire process of 
obtaining the subject’s consent shall be implemented in the presence of a witness. 
In such cases, the principal investigator or the person designated by the principal 
investigator shall read the consent form, the subject information sheet, and 
other documented information and explain the details of such documents to the 
subject or his/her representative, who then shall verbally consent to participation 
in the clinical trial, and if possible, shall sign and date the consent form in 
his/her own handwriting and the witness shall sign and date the consent form in 
his/her own handwriting as well, and ensure whether the details of the consent 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
104 
 
form, subject information sheet, and other documented information have been 
accurately explained to the subject or his/her representative before signing and 
dating it; whether he/she has understood them correctly; and whether the process 
of obtaining his/her consent has been implemented following his/her own will. 
10) The information, consent form, subject information sheet, and other documented 
information provided to a subject or his/her representative in the process of 
obtaining consent shall include the following: 
a) 
The fact that the clinical trial is conducted for research purposes; 
b) 
Purpose of the clinical trial; 
c) 
Information regarding investigational devices and probability of being 
randomized into a test or control group; 
d) 
Various tests or procedures to which subjects will be subjected during the 
clinical trial, including invasive procedures; 
e) 
Matters that subjects shall comply with; 
f) 
The fact that the clinical trial has not yet been validated; 
g) 
Risks or inconveniences expected to be incurred in subjects (including fetuses 
if subjects are pregnant, and infants if they are nursing women); 
h) 
The presence or absence of an expected benefit to the subjects; 
i) 
Other treatment methods or types that can be chosen by the subjects and 
potential risks and benefits of such treatments; 
j) 
Compensation or treatments to be given to subjects in case of damage related to 
the clinical trial incurred in the subjects; 
k) 
If there is monetary compensation to be provided to the subjects for 
participating in the clinical trial, the expected amount, and the fact that the 
amount will be adjusted according to the degree or period of participation in 
the clinical trial; 
l) 
Expected expenses to be borne by subjects by participating in the clinical 
trial; 
m) The fact that the subject’s decision to participate in the clinical trial shall 
be voluntary, and that he/she can refuse to participate or withdraw from 
participation at any time during the trial without losing the benefits to 
which he or she is entitled; 
n) 
The fact that a monitor under Subparagraph 8 (e-2), a person conducting 
inspections under Item 8 (Item 8), the IRB, and the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety may be granted access to medical records of subjects to verify 
the quality of the clinical trial implementation procedure and data 
according to relevant statues and regulations within the scope where the 
subject’s confidentiality is not infringed, and the fact that the subjects’ or 
their representatives’ signature on the consent form indicates their consent to 
such access to the data. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
105 
 
o) 
The fact that any record that can identify subjects shall be kept confidential, 
and that their identity will also be kept confidential in publications related to 
results of the clinical trial; 
p) 
The fact that subjects or their representatives will be promptly notified 
of newly obtained information that may affect the subject’s continued 
participation; 
q) 
Persons to be contacted when additional information is desired to be obtained 
regarding the clinical trial and the rights and interests of subjects or in case 
of damage related to the clinical trial; 
r) 
Cases where subject participation in the clinical trial is suspended during 
the trial and the reasons therefor; 
s) 
Expected participation period of subjects in the clinical trial; 
t) 
The approximate number of subjects participating in the clinical trial. 
11) The principal investigator and the subinvestigator shall give the subjects or their 
representatives a copy of the consent form and other documented information 
provided to them before they participate in the clinical trial, and if the consent 
form is modified during the clinical trial or if there is any change in the 
documented information, a copy of the modified consent form and the changed 
documents shall be given to them, respectively. 
12) In a clinical trial where subjects can participate only with the consent of a 
person with parental authority over them or their guardian, etc., because of 
the subjects’ lack of comprehension and expression ability under the proviso of 
Article 24 (1) 4, the principal investigator and subinvestigator shall provide the 
subjects with information regarding the clinical trial to the extent that they can 
understand, and if possible, have them sign and date the consent form in their 
own handwriting. 
13) In an emergency where it is impossible to obtain consent from a subject in 
advance, the consent of the subject’s representative shall be obtained, and if the 
subject’s representative is absent, written approval shall be obtained from the 
IRB. In such cases, the principal investigator and the subinvestigators shall 
notify the subject or the subject’s representative of the clinical trial as soon as 
possible and shall obtain consent to continuous participation in the trial. 
i. 
Records and reports 
1) 
The principal investigator shall ensure that any data included in the case 
report form or any other reports submitted to the sponsor are accurate, complete, 
easy to read, and timely. 
2) 
Data described in the case report form originating from the source document 
shall match the source document, and explanations shall be provided regarding any 
mismatching contents. 
3) 
The sponsor shall provide the principal investigator or the person designated by the 
principal investigator with guidelines on change or correction of the content in the 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
106 
 
case report form, and a monitor or other persons designated by the sponsor shall 
establish guidelines on the cases where the case report form shall be 
modified or corrected, methods of recording such changes, and the procedure for 
receiving confirmation from the principal investigator after such change or correction. 
4) 
Any person who modifies or corrects the content of the documented or digitalized 
case report form shall revise it in such a manner that the original content therein 
are identifiable according to the change guidelines prepared by the sponsor, and 
provide the change date and reasons for such change with his/her signature. 
5) 
The principal investigator shall keep records on any change or correction under 3). 
6) 
The principal investigator shall keep essential documents and other documents 
regarding the clinical trial (including electronic documents) prepared according to 
this GCP, Article 24, and other related statues and regulations following Article 9, 
Article 24, and other related statues and regulations. However, after the completion 
of the trial report, these documents shall be transferred to the person in charge 
of storage under subparagraph 5 (b) 8). 
7) 
The principal investigator or the head of the institution shall actively cooperate with 
a request for access to documents related to the clinical trial (including 
electronic documents) by a monitor under subparagraph 8 s), a person 
conducting inspections under subparagraph 8 t), the IRB, or the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety. 
j. 
Reporting on progress 
1) 
The principal investigator shall submit a summary of the clinical trial progress in 
writing to the IRB at least once a year and when there is a request by the IRB. 
2) 
The principal investigator shall promptly report in writing to the sponsor and the 
IRB when there is an increase in risks to the subjects or any change or 
modification that has a significant impact on the implementation of the 
clinical trial. 
k. 
Reporting related to safety of clinical trials 
1) 
The principal investigator shall submit an expedited adverse device effect 
report in the attached Form 55 to the sponsor for every serious adverse event 
(excluding those not required to be reported immediately in the clinical trial 
protocol or investigator’s brochure) within the period specified in the clinical 
trial protocol. In such cases, the principal investigator shall use subject 
identification codes instead of the subjects’ personal information including their 
name, resident registration number, and address, to keep their identity 
confidential, and if there are guidelines for reporting adverse events, the principal 
investigator shall follow such guidelines. 
2) 
The principal investigator shall report adverse events or abnormal laboratory test 
results, which are separately specified concerning safety evaluation in the clinical 
trial protocol, to the sponsor according to the reporting methods and within the 
period specified in the clinical trial protocol. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
107 
 
3) 
In cases of reporting death cases, the principal investigator shall submit additional 
data such as an autopsy report (limited to cases where an autopsy is performed), 
a death certificate, etc. to the sponsor and the IRB. 
l. 
Premature discontinuation or suspension of clinical trials 
1) 
If the principal investigator decides on the premature discontinuation or suspension 
of the clinical trial without prior agreement with the sponsor, he/she shall promptly 
notify the sponsor and the IRB and submit a detailed statement of the reasons for 
such premature discontinuation or suspension. 
2) 
If the sponsor decides on the premature discontinuation or suspension of the 
clinical trial, the principal investigator shall promptly notify the IRB and submit 
a detailed statement of the reasons for such premature discontinuation or suspension. 
3) 
If the IRB decides on the premature discontinuation or suspension of the 
clinical trial, the principal investigator shall promptly notify the sponsor and 
submit a detailed statement of the reasons for such premature discontinuation or 
suspension. 
4) 
For premature discontinuation or suspension of the clinical trial, as specified in 
the provisions of 1) to 3), the principal investigator shall notify the subjects 
of such fact and ensure that appropriate measures and follow-ups are carried 
out. 
m. Reporting on clinical trial completion 
 
When a clinical trial is completed (including premature discontinuation), the 
principal investigator shall report the completion of the trial to the IRB with the 
summary of the results of the clinical trial. 
 
8. 
Clinical trial sponsor 
a. 
Quality assurance of clinical trial and quality management of clinical trial data 
1) 
A sponsor shall establish an SOP regarding quality assurance of a clinical trial 
and quality management of clinical trial data (hereinafter, “SOP of sponsor”) 
so that data regarding clinical trial may be generated, recorded, and reported 
according to the clinical trial protocol, this GCP, and Article 24. 
2) 
A sponsor shall conduct quality management for clinical trial data in all stages of 
data processing to ensure the reliability and accuracy of such data. 
3) 
A sponsor shall obtain prior consent from persons involved in the clinical trial 
for clinical trial site visits and access to source data, source documents, and 
reports, with the clinical trial protocol or in a separate form of a written 
consent so that the monitoring under item s and inspections under item t can be 
conducted. 
b. 
Contract research organizations 
1) 
A sponsor may entrust all or part of his/her tasks related to the clinical trial to a 
contract research organization (CRO), but the sponsor shall take responsibility for 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
108 
 
managing the quality and accuracy of the clinical trial data. 
2) 
A contract research organization shall perform quality assurance and management of 
clinical trial data for the entrusted clinical trial. 
3) 
The entrustment under 1) shall be made in a written form that includes the 
details of the specific tasks to be entrusted. 
4) 
A contract research organization shall implement the entrusted tasks according to 
this GCP and as prescribed in Article 24 regarding the sponsor’s duties and 
tasks. 
c. 
Medical advice 
 
A sponsor may designate experts with medical knowledge and experience to seek 
advice on medical problems or inquiries related to clinical trials. 
d. 
Advice from relevant experts 
 
A sponsor may seek advice from relevant experts including a biostatistician, a 
medical device expert, a physician, or experts in other fields regarding any 
procedure of a clinical trial such as designing a clinical trial protocol and a case 
report form, establishing an analysis plan, analyzing collected data, and preparing an 
interim report and a trial report. 
e. 
Management of clinical trial 
1) 
A sponsor shall have a person with knowledge and experience in clinical 
trials supervise the overall implementation of the clinical trial and perform the tasks 
of data processing and verification, statistical analyses, and trial report 
preparation. 
2) 
A sponsor may establish a data monitoring committee for periodical evaluation of 
the progress of the clinical trial including safety-related data and important 
efficacy outcome variables and for advice on whether to proceed, modify, or 
discontinue the clinical trial, and the data monitoring committee shall establish an 
SOP necessary for the performance of its duties and prepare and keep the 
minutes of the meeting. 
3) 
Where a clinical development of investigational devices is discontinued, the 
sponsor shall report to the investigators, the clinical trial institution, and the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
f. 
Data processing 
1) 
A sponsor who intends to electronically process clinical trial data or use a 
remote computing system shall comply with the following: 
a) 
Verify whether the integrity, accuracy, reliability, and consistency of the system 
to electronically process clinical trial data and the remote computer system 
meet the requirements set by the sponsor and record details of such 
confirmation; 
b) 
Prescribe the methods of use, etc. of the system to electronically process 
clinical trial data and the remote computer system in the SOP of sponsor; 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
109 
 
c) 
Ensure that the data change method of the system to electronically process 
clinical trial data and the remote computer system is designed to record the 
process of data change is recorded and not delete previously entered data, and 
verify whether the systems meet these requirements; 
d) 
Prepare a security system able to prevent access to data from an unauthorized 
person; 
e) 
Prepare and maintain a list of persons authorized to modify data; 
f) 
Prepare and maintain backups of data; 
g) 
Maintain blinding/masking status throughout data input and processing 
processes if blinding/masking is required in a clinical trial. 
2) 
Where the form of data is changed in the data processing process, comparison 
between the original and modified data shall be enabled at all times. 
3) 
The sponsor shall use subject identification codes to identify data on each 
subject. 
g. 
Record keeping 
1) 
A sponsor shall keep essential documents and other data under Article 9 and 
other related laws: Provided, That the storage period shall be extended if ordered 
by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety or deemed necessary by the sponsor. 
2) 
A sponsor shall notify the investigators and the head of the institution in writing 
regarding the necessity and period of data storage; If the sponsor determines that 
data storage is no longer necessary, he or she shall inform the principal 
investigator and the head of the institution of such fact in writing. 
h. 
Selection of principal investigator 
1) 
A sponsor shall select, as the principal investigator of the trial, a person who 
meets the education and experience requirements for the clinical trial and has 
facilities and human resources for conducting the trial, and may establish a 
coordinating committee and select a coordinating investigator for the proper 
implementation of a multicenter clinical trial. 
2) 
Before concluding a contract with the head of a clinical trial institution regarding 
the implement of a clinical trial, the sponsor shall provide the principal 
investigator with the clinical trial protocol and the up-to-date investigator’s brochure, 
and secure sufficient time for the principal investigator to review the protocol 
and other information related to the trial received from the sponsor. 
3) 
A sponsor shall reach an agreement with the principal investigator and the head 
of the institution on the following matters, include such agreed matters in the clinical 
trial protocol or clinical trial contract, and have the principal investigator and the 
head of the institution sign the documents: 
a) 
A clinical trial shall be conducted according to this GCP, Article 24, other 
related statues and regulations, the clinical trial protocol, and matters approved 
by the IRB; 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
110 
 
b) 
Procedures for recording and reporting data shall be observed; 
c) 
Monitoring and inspections under items s and t shall be followed; 
d) 
Essential documents and other data related to the clinical trial shall be kept 
until the sponsor notifies in writing that the keeping is no longer needed. 
i. 
Assignment of duties 
 
Before conducting a clinical trial, the sponsor shall define all duties and roles related 
to the clinical trial and assign them appropriately to the persons involved in the trial. 
j. 
Compensation for subjects, etc. 
1) 
A sponsor shall establish a compensation procedure for damages incurred 
concerning clinical trials. 
2) 
Compensation for subjects shall be appropriately made according to the contents 
and methods of compensation prescribed in Subparagraph 7 (h) 10) j) and 
related statues and regulations. 
k. 
Approval of clinical trial protocols by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
 
Before conducting a clinical trial, a sponsor shall obtain approval of the clinical trial 
protocol from the Minister of Food and Drug Safety according to Article 10 of the 
Act. 
l. 
Confirmation of matters reviewed by the IRB 
 
A sponsor shall have the principal investigator submit the following documents to confirm 
the matters reviewed by the IRB: 
1) 
A list of IRM members and documents on their qualifications; 
2) 
Documents confirming that the IRB has been properly organized and 
operated according to this GCP; 
3) 
A notice of review from the IRB that the principal investigator has 
received according to subparagraph 6 (a) 2); 
4) 
Request for discontinuation of the clinical trial from the IRB under 
subparagraph 6 (a) 5); 
5) 
A certificate of confirmation from the head of the clinical trial institution 
under subparagraph 7 (d) 1). 
m. Providing information regarding investigational devices 
1) 
When planning a clinical trial, the sponsor shall secure information evidencing the 
safety and effectiveness of the clinical trial from the testing results of non-
clinical trials or other clinical trials. 
2) 
Based on the information obtained according to 1), the sponsor shall 
prepare an investigator’s brochure containing information on risks or adverse 
events expected in the clinical trial, information necessary for special 
examinations and observations, and other precautions, and provide it to the 
investigators. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
111 
 
3) 
If a sponsor has newly obtained important information on safety and effectiveness, 
the investigator’s brochure shall be amended accordingly. 
n. 
Manufacturing, packaging, labeling, and coding of investigational devices 
1) 
A sponsor shall identify electrical, mechanical, biological, and physicochemical 
properties of investigational devices in the development stage thereof, manufacture 
them according to the facility and manufacturing and quality management 
standards in the Annex 2, and label or code them to maintain blinding. 
2) 
A sponsor shall decide proper use methods, application periods, and validity 
periods (if applicable) of investigational devices and notify all persons involved 
in the clinical trial thereof. 
3) 
A sponsor shall pack investigational devices to prevent them from being damaged, 
contaminated, or deteriorated during transportation, keeping, or storage. 
4) 
Even in cases of coding investigational devices in order to conduct blinding tests, 
the sponsor shall ensure that their types can be easily identified in an emergency 
and the fact of unblinding can be immediately revealed. 
5) 
If there is any significant change in the design of medical devices being used a 
clinical trial, the sponsor shall secure additional research results to determine 
whether such change will bring significant changes to the safety and 
effectiveness of the medical devices. 
o. 
Supply and handling of investigational devices 
1) 
A sponsor shall supply investigational devices to the manager, etc. 
2) 
A sponsor shall not supply investigational devices to the manager, etc. before 
obtaining approval (including approval with changes or deferred approval) of 
the clinical trial protocol from the Minister of Food and Drug Safety and the 
IRB. 
3) 
A sponsor shall prepare guidelines on how to receive, handle, and store 
investigational devices, collect unused investigational devices from the subjects, and 
return them to the sponsor, and provide such guidelines to the principal 
investigator, manager, etc. 
4) 
A sponsor shall supply investigational devices promptly and prepare and keep 
records on the supply, receipt, return, and destruction of such investigational devices. 
5) 
A sponsor shall establish a procedure for cases where investigational devices shall 
be withdrawn due to problems such as failure of investigational devices, 
completion of the clinical trial (including premature discontinuation), and the 
expiration of use or validity periods of investigational devices, and shall record the 
details of such withdrawal of investigational devices. 
6) 
Where a sponsor intends to repackage unused medical devices and use them for the 
relevant clinical trial or other clinical trials, he or she shall prepare procedures 
for repackaging and use shall be prepared and record details of repackaging 
and use of unused medical devices. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
112 
 
7) 
A sponsor shall ensure the stability of investigational devices within the use or 
validity periods and keep related records. 
8) 
Matters not prescribed in this GCP shall be in accordance with the provisions 
on the manufacturing and management of medical devices in the relevant statues 
and regulations. 
p. 
Access to data regarding clinical trial 
1) 
A sponsor shall specify matters regarding access to clinical-trial–related data in 
the clinical trial protocol or other agreement documents. 
2) 
A sponsor shall confirm whether the subjects have consented to access the data 
related to the clinical trial. 
q. 
Matters related to the safety of investigational devices 
1) 
A sponsor shall constantly conduct evaluation on the safety of investigational 
devices. 
2) 
If a sponsor obtains information on the safety of investigational devices that 
threatens the safety of the subjects, affects the decision whether to conduct a clinical 
trial, or changes the decision of the IRB, he/she shall promptly report to the 
investigators and the Minister of Food and Drug Safety of such fact. 
r. 
Reporting on adverse device effects (ADEs) 
1) 
A sponsor shall report all serious and unexpected ADEs to the investigators, the 
IRB (limited to cases where the principal investigator has not reported them to 
the IRB or there is any need to change in the reported matters), and the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety within the periods classified as follows: 
a) 
ADEs likely to cause death or threaten life: Within 7 days from the 
date the sponsor is notified or becomes aware of the ADE. In such case, 
the sponsor shall additionally report detailed information on the ADE within 
8 days from the date of the initial report. 
b) 
Other serious and unexpected adverse device effects: Within 15 days from 
the date the sponsor is notified or becomes aware of the ADE. 
2) 
If there is additional information on the ADE reported according to 1), the 
sponsor shall report it until the ADE is resolved (meaning that the ADE 
disappears or follow-ups become infeasible). 
3) 
If a sponsor intends to report an ADE to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
according to 1), he or she shall submit an ADE report in Attached Form 56, 
along with the expedited ADE report submitted by the principal investigator 
according to subparagraph 7 (l) 1) in the attached Form 55. 
s. 
Monitoring 
1) 
The purposes of monitoring are as follows: 
a) 
To protect the rights and welfare of subjects; 
b) 
To confirm accuracy, completeness, and verifiability of data through 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
113 
 
comparison of source documents with data related to the clinical trial provided 
by the principal investigator; 
c) 
To confirm whether the clinical trial is conducted according to the clinical 
trial protocol approved by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety and the 
IRB, this GCP, and Article 24. 
2) 
Standards for selecting monitoring personnel and their qualifications are as 
follows: 
a) 
Monitors shall be selected by the sponsor; 
b) 
Monitors shall have scientific or clinical knowledge necessary for monitoring 
the relevant clinical trial and shall receive the training necessary for 
conducting monitoring, and the sponsor shall prepare a list of monitors 
and documents on their qualifications. 
c) 
Monitors shall have adequate knowledge of the relevant investigational devices, 
clinical trial protocol, consent forms, subject information sheet, and other 
written information provided to the subjects, SOP of sponsor, SOP of the 
institution, this GCP, Article 24, and other related statues and regulations. 
3) 
Sponsors shall determine the scope and type of monitoring in consideration of 
the purpose, implementation plan, complexity, blinding, number of subjects, 
outcome variables, etc. of the clinical trial and shall ensure that the monitoring is 
performed properly. 
4) 
Monitors shall confirm whether the clinical trial is properly conducted and whether 
relevant matters are recorded by performing the following tasks at the request 
of the sponsor: 
a) 
Delivering information between the sponsors and investigators; 
b) 
Confirming qualifications of the principal investigator and whether an 
appropriate number of subinvestigators, equipment, and facilities that meet 
the qualifications specified in the SOP of the clinical trial institution are 
secured; 
c) 
Confirming the following matters regarding investigational devices; 
(1) Whether the storage conditions, use-by date, and expiration date of 
investigational devices under guidelines in item o (3) are observed, 
and whether the number of investigational devices is sufficient to 
conduct the clinical trial; 
(2) Whether investigational devices are being used only for the subjects 
who satisfy the selection standards, according to the application period 
and operation or use methods specified in the clinical trial protocol; 
(3) Whether the subjects are properly provided with information on the use, 
keeping, and return of investigational devices; 
(4) Whether the clinical trial institution properly manages the receipt, use, 
and return of investigational devices and records the details thereof. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
114 
 
d) 
Confirming whether the investigator complies with the approved clinical 
trial protocol or protocol amendment; 
e) 
Confirming whether the subjects gave prior informed consent; 
f) 
Confirming whether the investigator has received other items including the 
up-to-date investigator’s brochure, related data, and investigational devices; 
g) 
Confirming whether the investigator has full knowledge of all aspects of the 
clinical trial; 
h) 
Confirming whether related functions of a certain clinical trial are 
commissioned or entrusted to an unauthorized person; 
i) 
Confirming whether the principal investigator allow only the subjects who meet 
the selection standards to participate in the clinical trial; 
j) 
Reporting of the enrollment rate of subjects; 
k) 
Confirming whether source documents and other records related to the clinical 
trial are accurate and complete, and whether they reflect up-to-date 
information related to the clinical trial; 
l) 
Confirming whether the investigators is providing reports, notifications, 
applications, etc. to persons involved in the clinical trial according to 
the clinical trial protocol, this GCP, Article 24, and other related statues and 
regulations; whether the documents are specific to the clinical trial; whether 
the documents are accurate, complete, and readable; and whether the 
documents are prepared in a timely manner and are dated; 
m) Confirming whether the case report form, source documents, and other 
documents related to the clinical trial (including electronic documents) are 
accurate, complete, and consistent, and confirming the following matters: 
(1) Whether the clinical trial data required in the clinical trial protocol are 
accurately recorded in the case report form and whether the data in 
the case report form match those in the source document; 
(2) Whether changes in matters such as application periods and operation 
or use methods for each subject are properly recorded; 
(3) Whether adverse events, combined therapy, and intercurrent diseases are 
recorded on the case report form according to the clinical trial protocol; 
(4) Whether the details of clinical trial tests that were omitted for each 
subject (referring to the non-visit of the subject and the non-conduct 
of the test or examination on the subject) are clearly recorded in 
the case report form; 
(5) Whether the details of and reasons for the suspension of medication or 
subjects’ withdrawal are recorded in the case report form; 
n) 
Confirming whether notification to the investigators related to errors, omissions, 
and unreadable parts of the case report form or corrections thereof or additions 
thereto are made properly. In such cases, it shall be confirmed whether 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
115 
 
the causes of such errors, the signature of the person having the authority to 
change the information (referring to the principal investigator or the 
subinvestigator who has the authority to change the information on the case 
report form), and the date of change are properly provided. 
o) 
Confirming whether all adverse events have been reported according to this 
GCP, Article 24, clinical trial protocol, reporting standards set by the 
IRB, and other related statues and regulations; 
p) 
Confirming whether the principal investigator keeps essential documents 
according to subparagraph 7 (i) 6) and subparagraph 9; 
q) 
Confirming whether the principal investigator has been informed of all 
violations of the clinical trial protocol, SOP of sponsor, SOP of the clinical 
trial institution, this GCP, and Article 24, and whether appropriate measures to 
prevent the recurrence of such violations have been taken. 
5) 
Monitors shall conduct monitoring according to the SOP of sponsor and as 
determined by the sponsor concerning the clinical trial procedure. 
6) 
Reporting of monitoring shall be performed as follows: 
a) 
Where a monitor visits the clinical trial institution or contacts a person related 
to the clinical trial via telephone, fax, or e-mail, he or she shall report the 
details of such visits or contacts to the sponsor in writing. 
b) 
The monitoring report shall include the following information: 
(1) Date and place of monitoring; 
(2) Name of the monitor and the name of the investigator or the contacted 
person; 
(3) Summary of matters confirmed by the monitor; 
(4) Clinically significant discovery or events; 
(5) Violations of the clinical trial protocol, SOP of sponsor, SOP of the 
clinical trial institution, this GCP, and Article 24, or problems in the 
clinical trial; 
(6) Conclusion; 
(7) Measures taken to prevent the recurrence of violations of the clinical 
trial protocol, SOP of sponsor, SOP of the clinical trial institution, 
this GCP, and Article 24, and matters requiring such measures. 
c) 
A sponsor shall record the result of monitoring report reviews and follow-
up measures. 
t. 
Audit 
1) 
A sponsor shall conduct an audit to confirm whether the clinical trial is conducted in 
compliance with the protocol, the SOP of sponsor, the SOP of the clinical trial 
institution, these criteria, Article 24, and other relevant statutes and regulations 
according to their purposes. In such cases, the sponsor’s audit shall be performed 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
116 
 
separately from ordinary monitoring or quality management. 
2) 
Selection standards and qualifications of an auditor are as follows: 
a) 
The sponsor shall designate a person who has no personal stake in the 
clinical trial as an auditor; 
b) 
The auditor shall have the necessary knowledge, receive the training required 
for performing an audit for the study, and the sponsor shall prepare and 
keep a list of auditors and documents related to their qualifications. 
3) 
The procedures for audit are as follows: 
a) 
The sponsor shall establish guidelines for the audit on the subject, method, 
and frequency of audit, the form of audit report, details to be specified in the 
audit report, etc.; 
b) 
The sponsor shall establish an audit plan and audit procedures in consideration 
of the issues already confirmed concerning the significance of the clinical 
trial, subject number, type and complexity of the clinical trial, potential 
risks to subjects, and implementation of the study; 
c) 
The sponsor shall document and keep the audit results; 
d) 
The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall request to the sponsor for 
submission of the audit report only if there is evidence that the clinical trial 
has seriously violated Article 24 and this GCP, or if there is a legal 
dispute regarding the trial, in order to ensure the independent and 
autonomous implementation of the audit; 
e) 
The Minister of Food and Drug Safety may request to the sponsor for 
submission of an audit certificate. 
u. 
Actions against violations 
1) 
If the investigator, the sponsor, the monitor, or the auditor is found to violate 
the clinical trial protocol, the SOP of sponsor, the SOP of the clinical trial 
institution, this GCP, Article 24, and other relevant statues and regulations, the 
sponsor shall promptly take corrective and preventive action. 
2) 
If the investigator’s continued violation or serious violation is confirmed through 
monitoring or audit, the sponsor shall suspend the participation in the clinical 
trial by the relevant clinical trial institution and inform the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety of such fact. 
v. 
Report on premature discontinuation or suspension of the study 
 
In cases of the premature discontinuation or suspension of the clinical trial, the 
sponsor shall promptly report such fact and reasons therefor in written form to the 
principal investigator and the Minister of Food and Drug Safety; if the clinical 
trial has been designed as a multicenter study, such fact and reasons therefor shall be 
notified in writing to the principal investigators of other clinical trial institutions as 
well. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
117 
 
w. Matters to be confirmed for a multicenter study 
 
In cases of a multicenter trial, the sponsor shall confirm the following: 
1) 
Whether all principal investigators are conducting the clinical trial in compliance 
with the protocol agreed by the sponsor and approved by the IRB and the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
2) 
Whether the case report form is designed to collect all the data to be collected by 
each institution. In such cases, the principal investigator who intends to collect 
additional data shall be provided with a case report form with an addition of 
the relevant content; 
3) 
Whether the obligations of the investigators are documented before starting the 
clinical trial; 
4) 
Whether all principal investigators have complied with the clinical trial protocol and 
the evaluation standards for clinical and laboratory tests and have received a 
guideline for the recording of the case report form; 
5) 
Whether communications between the investigators are amicable; 
 
9.  Essential documents storage, access, etc. 
a. 
In order to terminate a clinical trial, the monitor shall review the essential documents of 
the investigator and sponsor and confirm the status of storage thereof. 
b. 
If there is a request for an audit from the sponsor under subparagraph 8 (t), the 
investigator shall allow the sponsor or the auditor to access the essential documents. 
c. 
In addition to the matters prescribed in this GCP, specific types of essential documents, 
the storage methods therefor for each clinical phase, and keeping managers per each 
document shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety. 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
118 
 
■ 
ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT [Annex 4]  
<Amended on March 8, 2024> 
 
Standards for Facilities and Manufacturing and Quality Management Systems  
of Import Businesses (Related to Article 31 (1)) 
 
1. 
Facilities of Import Business 
 
A person who intends to obtain an import business license, or an importer shall hold and keep 
the facilities and equipment under the following items, and check them periodically to avoid 
causing any trouble in import and quality management of medical devices 
A. Place of business where import business is conducted 
B. 
Warehouse where products are stored. Provided, however, that this shall not apply where 
only software medical devices are imported. 
C. 
Laboratory if testing for quality management is required, or testing facilities necessary for 
the test. Provided, however, that this shall not apply where only software medical devices 
are imported. 
 
2. 
Criteria for Facilities of Import Business 
 
The facilities of import business shall comply with the standards set forth in each of the 
following items. Provided, however, that this shall not apply where only software medical 
devices are imported. 
A. Facilities capable of maintaining the conditions at the time of importing the product 
B. 
Cold storage or facilities for shielding light (only for the products that require cold 
storage or the products that may have trouble with functions if exposed to the light) 
C. 
In case of handling the product item in which the storage method is specified, the 
facilities capable of maintaining such condition. 
 
3. 
Conformity Accreditation of Manufacturing and Quality Management System on 
Manufacturing Site of Imported Medical Devices 
A. An importer shall secure conformity of manufacturing and quality management system on 
the manufacturing site of imported medical devices. 
B. 
An importer of class II/class III/class IV medical devices shall receive periodic 
inspection every three years on whether manufacturing and quality management system 
on the manufacturing site conforms to the criteria of Annex 2 subparagraph 2. 
C. 
Annex 2 subparagraph 2 F shall apply mutatis mutandis for the standards and procedures 
of conformity accreditation or periodic inspection pursuant to item A and item B. 
D. Detailed matters of manufacturing and quality management system that are not prescribed 
in the Standards shall be set forth and notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
119 
 
■ 
ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT [Annex 5] 
 <Amended on May. 1, 2017> 
 
Standards for Facilities and Quality Management Systems of Repair Businesses 
(Related to Article 35 (4)) 
 
1. 
Facility Management 
 
A repairer shall secure facilities and equipment necessary for repairing and testing 
medical devices. 
 
2. 
Repair Management Record 
 
A repairer shall prepare a repair management record for each item, and such record 
shall include the following: 
a. 
Item name and model name of the relevant medical device; 
b. 
Manufacturer (importer) name and country of manufacture of the relevant medical 
device; 
c. 
Date of manufacture and date of repair; 
d. 
Report of inspection and confirmation; 
e. 
Description of major repairs undertaken; 
f. 
Records on the management of repair facilities. 
 
3. 
Appointment of Chief Engineer 
 
A repairer shall appoint a chief engineer who has proper qualifications in the field of 
medical devices to be repaired who is in charge of managing repair duties. 
 
4. 
Duties of Chief Engineer 
a. 
Preparation, maintenance, and utilization of repair management records; 
b. 
Examination and confirmation on whether the medical device is properly repaired after 
the repair; 
c. 
Inspection and verification of repair results for quality assurance and documentation and 
maintenance of such results. 
 
5. 
Corrective Measures 
 
When there is a complaint on the quality of a repaired medical device, the repairer shall 
establish a procedure that allows the chief engineer to identify the causes and take 
corrective measures, and implement such a procedure. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
120 
 
6. 
Records 
 
The following records shall be prepared and maintained: 
a. 
Records regrading repair and maintenance work; 
b. 
Records regarding repair facilities including testing and inspection equipment; 
c. 
Records regarding corrective measures taken; 
d. 
Other records regarding conducting duties according to these standards. 
 
7. 
Training 
 
To improve the qualification of the chief engineer and repair workers, a repairer shall 
establish a company training plan that includes the following topics and provide the 
employees with such training at least once per quarter, for a total of 12 hours a year: 
a. 
Responsibilities regarding medical device repair and related statues and regulations; 
b. 
Content and specifications of the medical devices to be repaired; 
c. 
Matters regarding the quality management of medical device repair. 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
121 
 
■ 
ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT [Annex 6]  
<Amended on Jan. 21, 2022> 
 
Distribution Quality Management Standards for Medical Devices 
(Related to Article 39 (4)) 
 
1. 
Definitions 
 
The terms used in the Standards are defined as follows: 
a. 
The term “separation” refers to a condition of being in different buildings or in 
spaces separated by walls within the same building. 
b. 
The term “partitioning” refers to a condition of being divided by partitions, etc., so 
as to manage medical devices to prevent contamination or mix-ups thereof. 
c. 
The term “division” refers to a condition of different medical devices distinguished from 
each other by drawing lines or placing spaces among them so as to manage such 
medical devices to prevent confusion thereamong. 
d. 
The term “distribution quality management standards” refer to detailed standards that a 
person who may distribute or lease medical devices shall observe concerning 
distribution of such medical devices. 
e. 
The term “medical device mail-order distributor” refers to a person who conducts only a 
mail order business under Article 2 (2) of the Act on the Consumer Protection in 
Electronic Commerce among those who filed a distribution business notification 
under Article 17 of the Act. 
 
2. 
Facilities and equipment 
 
The place where medical devices are stored in the process of distribution or lease 
(hereinafter “storage area”) shall meet the following standards: 
a. 
The building where medical devices are stored shall be separated from dirty areas, and 
the storage site shall have sufficient area and space; 
b. 
A storage area shall not be used for any purpose other than the distribution or lease of 
medical devices: Provided, That products, etc. other than medical devices may also 
be stored in the space if divided or partitioned from medical devices within the extent 
of not damaging supply and quality management of the medical devices; 
c. 
Medical devices shall not come in direct contact with the floor; 
d. 
A storage area shall have adequate lighting for handling medical devices and shall be 
well-ventilated; 
e. 
A storage area shall be equipped with facilities that maintain proper temperature and 
humidity to prevent the deterioration of medical devices and shall have air 
conditioning facilities if necessary; in cases of storing medical devices that need to be 
kept at a fixed temperature, separate freezing or refrigerating equipment with automatic 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
122 
 
temperature recording devices shall be installed; 
f. 
When using automatic equipment such as freezing or refrigerating equipment, such 
equipment shall be periodically inspected and maintained to ensure that the 
equipment functions properly all the time, and records of such inspection and 
maintenance shall be preserved for one year; 
g. 
A storage area shall be equipped with facilities for preventing harmful insects and mice 
and with a fire extinguishing system. 
 
3. 
Chief manager 
 
For the stable supply and quality control of medical devices, a chief manager shall be 
appointed to check and confirm the compliance of the implement of tasks with the Standards. 
In such cases, the representative may concurrently hold the post of chief manager. 
 
4. 
Quality management and environment and hygiene management 
a. 
When warehousing medical devices, information on each transaction statement and the 
supplier, model name, quantity, specifications, etc., of the warehoused products shall 
be confirmed and checked, and the exterior of the devices shall be inspected for 
damage, contamination, etc. 
b. 
Medical devices that need to be divided according to storage temperature shall be 
stored by being divided in a refrigerated or frozen area. 
c. 
Returned medical devices and defective medical devices shall be stored separately. 
d. 
When shipping medical devices, a worker shall be present to perform exterior inspection 
and confirm the supplier, model name, quantity, specifications, shelf life (expiry date), 
etc., of the devices before shipping; when supplying medical devices to a medical 
institution, or medical device distributor or lessor, details of such supply including the 
customer, model name, quantity, and specifications, etc., of the devices shall be recorded. 
e. 
Medical devices that need to be divided according to storage temperature shall be 
stored at an appropriate temperature which is maintained during transport. 
f. 
A storage area and related machinery, apparatus, and equipment shall be kept clean. 
g. 
When any complaint is raised about the distribution process of medical devices, a 
prompt investigation shall be implemented to take appropriate measures, and the 
details of such investigation and measures shall be recorded. 
h. 
If a lessor intends to lease medical devices contacting with the human body which 
require contamination management, he or she shall remove contamination by methods 
such as cleaning, disinfection etc. and record and maintain the records of such 
contamination management. 
 
5. 
Record keeping and management 
a. 
The following ledgers necessary for proper supply and safety management of medical 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
123 
 
devices shall be prepared and placed: 
1) 
Facility and equipment ledger: Facility and equipment inspection results 
under subparagraph 2; 
2) 
Shipment ledger: Details of medical device supply under the latter part of 
subparagraph 4 d; 
3) 
Complaint handling ledger: Receipt of complaints and measures taken under 
subparagraph 4 g. 
b. 
Except for the records specified in the relevant statues and regulations, records related to 
handling duties including various ledgers shall be preserved for two years. 
 
6. 
Training 
 
In order to improve the capability of workers, a company training plan shall be 
established on the following topics, and such training shall be provided at least once 
per quarter, for a total of 12 hours a year: 
a. 
Responsibilities related to handling medical devices; 
b. 
Details and specifications of medical devices; 
c. 
Handling and quality management of medical devices. 
d. 
Laws and regulations on medical devices; 
e. 
Other matters necessary to efficiently implement the Standards. 
 
7. 
Subparagraph 2, subparagraph 4 b, c, e and f, and subparagraph 5 (a) 1) shall not 
apply to a person who does not have a storage area as a mail-order distributor of 
medical devices. 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
124 
 
■ 
ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT [Annex 7] 
 
Scope of Prohibited Advertisements 
(Related to Article 45 (1)) 
 
1. 
Falsified or exaggerated advertisement related to name/manufacturing method/performance or 
efficacy and effect of medical devices or their modes 
2. 
Advertisements on name/manufacturing method/performance or efficacy and effect of medical 
devices that are not approved, certified or notified for pursuant to Article 6 (2) or Article 15 (2) 
of the Act 
3. 
Advertisements with expressions to entirely deny the adverse effects of medical devices or 
with expressions to unreasonably emphasize safety 
4. 
Advertisements that have falsely cited medical clinical results, clinical study report, related 
papers or academic data, or falsely indicated as if obtaining patent or certification concerning 
efficacy or effect of the medical devices that have obtained license or certification, or filed a 
report for 
5. 
Advertisement that have used articles that might be misinterpreted as guaranteeing 
performance or efficacy and effect of medical device by doctor, dentist, doctor of oriental 
medicine, veterinarian or other persons 
6. 
Advertisement containing details such as designating/certifying/recommending/instructing or 
using the medical device by doctor, dentist, doctor of oriental medicine, veterinarian or other 
persons. However, advertisement containing details of being used by designating for the 
purposes of national health by government, local government or other public organizations 
shall be excluded. 
7. 
Advertisement that might misinterpret foreign products and domestic products or domestic 
products as foreign products 
8. 
Advertisements using letter of appreciation or personal experience of the user, or using 
expressions such as purchases/orders are pouring in or other similar expressions 
9. 
Advertisements containing details such as “definitely guarantee this” when advertising 
efficacy/effect, or advertisement using absolute expressions such as “top” or “best” 
10. Advertisements that might make people misinterpret that the medical device is not a medical 
device 
11. Advertisements that suggest as if being recommended by medical institution, etc. by pointing 
out the name of specific medical institution, department and contact info, etc. 
12. Advertisements using articles, photographs, designs or other suggestive methods to 
suggest performance or efficacy and effect of the medical device 
13. Advertisements that indicate or suggest the result of use with the comparison before and after 
using when advertising efficacy or performance 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
125 
 
14. Advertisements that slander or that are suspected as slandering other products regardless 
of whether it is true or not 
15. Advertisements that suggest abortion related to medical devices, or using obscene documents 
or designs 
16. Advertisements that indicate disease symptoms or surgery scenes related to efficacy/effect 
or purpose of use of medical devices in a threatening way 
17. Advertisements that are not reviewed pursuant to Article 25 (1) of the Act or 
advertisement containing different contents from the reviewed contents 
18. Advertisements that have received re-review request as the result of the review pursuant to 
Article 25 (1) of the Act 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
126 
 
■  
ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT [Annex 7-2]  
<Amended on Oct. 22, 2019> 
 
UDI (Unique Device Identification) Management Standards 
(Related to Article 54-3 (2)) 
 
1. 
 Registration of Medical Device Information, etc. 
(a)  Manufacturers or importers shall register medical device information, etc. for each 
model name in the UDI System in order to efficiently record and manage integrated 
information on medical devices from approval through manufacturing, import, 
distribution, and use. 
(b)  Manufacturers or importers shall register medical device information, etc. in the UDI 
System after obtaining approval, certification, or completing notification of the 
medical device, and before releasing the medical device from their facilities. 
(c)  Where registered medical device information, etc. is changed, the manufacturer or 
importer shall register such changes within ten days from the date of the change. 
(d)  Where changes to medical device information, etc. specified by the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety—such as the instructions for use or precautions—necessitate 
assignment of a new unique identification code, the manufacturer or importer shall 
register the changed medical device information, etc. in the UDI System and shall also 
register the newly assigned identification code. 
(e)  Where the head of the National Institute of Medical Device Safety Information finds 
that the registered medical device information, etc. is inaccurate or does not comply 
with the requirements prescribed by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, he or she 
may request the manufacturer or importer to correct or amend such information. In 
such cases, the manufacturer or importer shall take necessary measures—such as 
registering accurate information or submitting supplementary documents—within 
twenty days from the date of the request. 
(f)  Where the manufacturer or importer fails to take the necessary measures under item 
(e), or where it is evident that the registered information is inconsistent with the facts, 
the head of the National Institute of Medical Device Safety Information (NIDS) may 
delete or amend the relevant information. In such cases, the head of the NIDS shall 
notify the manufacturer or importer concerned without delay. 
(g)  Manufacturers or importers shall not falsely register medical device information, etc. 
(including false registration of changes). 
 
2.  Management of Medical Device Information, etc. 
(a)  Manufacturers or importers shall keep the medical device information, etc. registered 
in the UDI System up to date. 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
127 
 
(b)  Manufacturers or importers shall retain and manage records related to the medical 
device information, etc. registered in the UDI System. 
(c)  Where the marketing of a medical device is discontinued due to withdrawal or 
revocation of its approval, certification, or notification, or for any other reason, the 
manufacturer or importer shall retain the records related to the medical device 
information, etc. for three years from the date on which the marketing was 
discontinued. 
(d)  Manufacturers or importers shall provide education and training to employees and 
other personnel to enhance their competency regarding the registration of UDI and the 
use of the UDI System. 
(e)  Manufacturers or importers shall comply with the detailed standards prescribed and 
publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, including the methods and 
procedures for registration (including registration of changes) in the UDI System. 
 
3.  UDI Management Officer 
 
Manufacturers or importers shall appoint a management officer in order to efficiently and 
systematically manage UDI, including medical device information, etc. In this case, the 
quality manager may concurrently serve as the management officer, and the management 
officer shall inspect and verify whether employees and other personnel are performing their 
duties in accordance with the UDI Management Standards. 
 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
128 
 
■ 
ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT [Annex 8]  
<Amended on Oct. 31, 2025> 
 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions 
(Related to Article 58 (1)) 
 
I. 
General Standards 
1. 
Standards for Administrative Disposition for 2 or More violations 
a. 
In cases of 2 or more violations, the standard for the severest administrative 
disposition shall be followed: Provided, That if all the disposition standards 
correspond to business suspension or suspension of a product or product category 
(hereinafter “product”), disposition may be imposed by adding or weighting up to 
1/2 of each the period of such suspension shall be aggravated by summing up the 
suspension period following the respective less severe standards to the suspension period 
following the severest criteria. In such cases, the maximum suspension period shall not 
exceed 12 months: Provided, That when two or more individual standards are 
applicable to the violation for the same case in the causal relation (insufficient test 
equipment and failure to conduct testing, etc.), only the severest standards shall apply 
without adding up or weighting disposition. 
b. 
In cases of 2 or more types of violations of which disposition corresponds to business 
suspension and product suspension, each suspension period shall be calculated 
according to the criteria standards in item a, and if the business suspension period is 
longer than or equal to the product suspension period, only the disposition of 
business suspension shall be ordered; if the business period is shorter than the 
product suspension period, disposition of both business suspension and product 
suspension for the period that exceeds the business period shall be concurrently 
imposed. 
 
2. 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions for Cumulative Violations 
a. 
Standards for administrative dispositions for cumulative violations shall apply when 
administrative disposition is imposed for cumulative violations prescribed in “II. 
Criteria by Case” within a year (within 2 years for quality non-conformity [including 
cases applicable mutatis mutandis under Article 15 (6) of the Act] or within 5 years 
for a violation of Article 18 (2) of the Act) from the date of the latest disposition. 
In addition, when issuing a warning pursuant to the standards by case, the competent 
authority shall notify the party concerned to make improvements within a specified period, 
and if the violation is not remedied within that period, the case shall be regarded as a 
second violation. In such cases, the period to which the standards apply shall be 
calculated based on the date when a disposition was imposed on the preceding violation 
(in case of imposing a fine in lieu of a business suspension disposition, the date 
when the fine was imposed) and date when the same violation was detected after the 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
129 
 
imposition of the disposition: Provided, That the foregoing does not apply for 
violations involving different products. 
b. 
If an additional aggravated disposition is ordered following item a, such a disposition 
shall be given an ordinal number subsequent to that of the disposition imposed right 
before the violation for which it is issued (in cases of 2 or more dispositions ordered 
within the period under item a, the disposition with the highest ordinal number). 
c. 
When the same violation is detected during the period wherein the procedure for a 
previously received administrative disposition is in progress, 1/2 of the period of the 
dispositions set by the standards for each of the newly detected violations shall be 
added to the disposition period. In such cases, when the maximum period of business 
suspension or product suspension exceeds 12 months, the relevant manufacturing or 
import business approval or the approval or certification of the relevant product shall 
be revoked, or the relevant repair shop or business place shall be closed. 
d. 
When a business suspension period or a product suspension period is calculated to 
decimal places, such decimal places shall be rounded off. 
 
3. 
When the same violation is repeated three3 times or more, the case shall be excluded 
from the subject of imposition of a fine, and if the violation is repeated 5 times or more, 
the disposition standards for the 4th violation shall be applied. 
 
4. 
When, among the standards for administrative dispositions, a violation involves an 
individual product that has already been permitted, certified, or notified, the administrative 
disposition for the violation shall be imposed in relation to the approval, certification, or 
notification of the product or relevant business activities; when a violation involves all 
products that have been permitted, certified, or notified, the administrative disposition 
shall be imposed in relation to the approval, certification, or notification of the products 
or relevant business activities. 
 
5. 
When a violation involving a permitted, certified, or notified product is a violation on an 
individual factory, the administrative disposition for the violation shall be imposed on the 
items manufactured by the factory. 
 
6. 
When an administrative disposition has been enforced for a violation, the same violations 
committed before the disposition shall be deemed as having been punished by the 
disposition so that the disposition shall not be imposed again: Provided, That when the 
same violation has been committed in relation to a different product, or when it is in 
violation of 2 of II. Standards by Cases, the foregoing shall not apply. 
 
7. 
If any of the following reasons apply to a violation of which standard for disposition 
corresponds to business suspension or product suspension, the period of such suspension 
may be reduced to the extent of 1/2 (2/3 in cases of falling under item (f)); in cases of 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
130 
 
a violation of which standard for disposition corresponds to the revocation of 
manufacturing or import business approval, revocation of approval or certification of the 
relevant product, prohibition of manufacturing or import of the relevant product, or the 
closure of the repair shop or business place, the disposition may be mitigated to 3 
months of business suspension or product suspension: 
a. 
If the disposition is deemed necessary for public health or supply and demand, and 
for public interest; 
b. 
If a medical device fails to meet the standards for performance, safety, etc., 
according to a result of quality inspection thereof, and the non-conformity is so 
minor that it is deemed not harmful to the human body; 
c. 
If a medical device it has been manufactured or imported and repaired but not in 
circulation; 
d. 
If the device manufacturer or importer receives the disposition of suspension of 
indictment from the prosecutor or suspension of sentence from the court for the 
relevant violation; 
e. 
If the device manufacturer or importer reports a recall plan according to the provisions in 
Articles 52 through 54, sincerely conducts the recall accordingly in good faith, and 
notifies the result of the recall; 
f. 
If a person who has provided economic benefits, etc., in violation of Article 13 (3) 
of the Act (including cases where such provision applies mutatis mutandis under 
Article 15 (6) of the Act) or Article 18 (2) of the Act voluntarily reports the 
violation to an investigation agency or supervisory office before the violation is 
detected, and gives statements or testimonies or relevant data in a related 
investigation, lawsuit, etc. 
 
8. 
Notwithstanding subparagraphs 1 through 6, an exemption from any administrative 
disposition may be permitted if the medical device recalled by the device manufacturer or 
importer under Articles 52 through 54 is found to have no adverse effect on public health, 
or there is no reason attributable to the device manufacturer or importer. 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
131 
 
II. 
Standards by Case 
Violation 
Relevant 
Provisions 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions 
1st Violation 
2nd Violation 
3rd Violation 
4th Violation 
or More 
1.  If a manufacturer or 
importer falls under any 
subparagraph of Article 6 
(1) of the Act (including 
cases applied mutatis 
mutandis under Article 15 
(6) of the Act) 
Article 36 
(1) 1 of the 
Act 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import business 
license 
 
 
 
1-2.  If a manufacturer or an 
importer obtains approval, 
approval of change, 
certification, certification 
of change, or files a 
notification or notification 
of change pursuant to 
Article 6 (1) or (2), Article 
12 (1) (including cases 
applied mutatis mutandis 
under Article 15 (6)), or 
Article 15 (1) or (2) of the 
Act by fraudulent or other 
improper means 
Article 36 
(1) 1-2 of 
the Act 
Revocation of 
approval, 
certification, or 
notification, or 
closure of the 
business 
 
 
 
1-3.  If approval or approval of 
change under Article 10 (1) 
of the Act has been 
obtained by fraudulent or 
other improper means 
Article 36 
(1) 1-3 of 
the Act 
Revocation of 
approval 
 
 
 
1-4.  If a manufacturer or an 
importer obtains renewal 
under Article 49 (3) of the 
Act by fraudulent or other 
improper means 
Article 36 
(1) 1-4 of 
the Act 
Revocation of 
approval, 
certification, or 
notification 
 
 
 
2.  If a manufacturer or 
importer manufactures or 
imports a medical device 
without obtaining 
approval or certification, 
or filing a notification, in 
violation of Article 6 (2) 
or 15 (2) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 2 of the 
Act 
6-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import business 
license 
 
 
3.  If a manufacturer, etc., 
fails to be equipped with 
facilities in compliance 
with the standards in 
Annex 2 in violation of 
Article 36 
(1) 3 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
132 
 
Article 6 (4) and Article 
13 (4) of the Act 
a.  
If all or part of the 
facilities and equipment 
necessary for the 
manufacturing or testing 
of the relevant product 
are absent or unavailable 
even if they are in place; 
 
5-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
10-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
manufacture of 
the product 
 
b.  If no work space required 
for the type of product, 
manufacturing method, 
and manufacturing facility 
is in place 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
manufacture of 
the product 
c.  Other cases of violating 
the facility management 
standards 
 
f15-day 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
d.  If testing is entrusted to 
a contractor who is not 
authorized for such 
entrustment 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
Nine-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
manufacture of 
the product 
e.  
When a manufacturer or 
importer entrusts the 
manufacturing process or 
testing to a contractor 
and fails to fulfill the 
responsibility for 
managing the contractor 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
ninepence-
month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
manufacture of 
the product 
3-2.  When a manufacturer or 
importer fails to appoint a 
quality manager in 
violation of Article 6 (7) 
of the Act (including 
Article 36 
(1) 3-2 of 
the Act 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
3-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities 
6-month of 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
/import business 
license 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
133 
 
cases applied mutatis 
mutandis under Article 15 
(6) of the Act) 
3-3.  When a person who has 
not received necessary 
training is appointed as a 
quality manager in 
violation of Article 6-2 
(4) of the Act (including 
cases applied mutatis 
mutandis under Article 15 
(6) of the Act) 
Article 36 
(1) 3-3 of 
the Act 
15-day suspension 
of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
3-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
6-month of 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities 
4.  When a manufacturer or 
importer fails to fulfill the 
conditions under Article 7 
(1) of the Act (including 
cases applied mutatis 
mutandis under Article 15 
(6) of the Act) 
Article 36 
(1) 4 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  Conditional 
manufacturing/import 
business license 
 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import business 
license 
 
 
 
b.  Conditional 
manufacturing/import 
approval 
 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval of 
the relevant 
product 
 
 
 
c.  
Conditional 
manufacturing/import 
certification 
 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import certification 
for the relevant 
product 
 
 
 
d.  
Conditional 
manufacturing/import 
notification 
 
Prohibition of 
manufacture/import 
of the relevant 
product 
 
 
 
5.  If a manufacturer or 
importer fails to conduct 
post-marketing 
surveillance in violation 
of Article 8 of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 5 of the 
Act 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant 
product 
9-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval of the 
relevant 
product 
5-2.  If a manufacturer or 
importer fails to obtain 
approval or approval for 
modification or fails to 
comply with a 
Article 36 
(1) 5-2 of 
the Act 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval of the 
relevant 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
134 
 
surveillance plan granted 
approval or approval of 
modification in violation 
of Article 8 (3) of the 
Act 
product 
product 
5-3.  If a manufacturer or 
importer fails to file a 
periodic report or submits 
a report by fraud or other 
improper means in 
violation of Article 8 (4) 
of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 5-3 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  If a periodic report on 
the post-marketing 
surveillance results has not 
been submitted within the 
set deadline 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval of the 
relevant 
product 
b.  If the report is submitted 
by fraud or other 
improper means 
 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval of 
the relevant 
product 
 
 
 
5-4.  If a manufacturer or 
importer fail to obey an 
order to take measures 
under Article 8 (5) of the 
Act 
Article 36 
(1) 5-4 of 
the Act 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
5-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval 
for the relevant 
product 
5-5.  If a manufacturer or 
importer is found to have 
failed to secure the safety 
or efficacy of a medical 
device as a result of 
examination under Article 
8-2 of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 5-5 of 
the Act 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval of 
the relevant 
product 
 
 
 
5-6.  If a manufacturer or 
importer fails to submit 
data within a set deadline 
or submits data by fraud 
or other improper means 
Article 36 
(1) 5-6 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  If post-marketing 
surveillance data is not 
submitted within a set 
deadline 
 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval 
of the relevant 
product 
 
 
b.  If the data is submitted 
by fraud or other 
 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
135 
 
improper means 
import approval of 
the relevant 
product 
5-7.  If a manufacturer or 
importer fails to obey an 
order to take measures 
under Article 8-2 (2) of 
the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 5-7 of 
the Act 
2-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
4-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval of the 
relevant 
product 
5-8.  If a manufacturer or 
importer fails to meet the 
requirements on data 
preservation in violation 
of Article 8-2 (3) of the 
Act 
Article 36 
(1) 5-8 of 
the Act 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval of the 
relevant 
product 
6.  If a manufacturer or 
importer fails to undergo 
re-evaluation, fails to take 
measures based on the 
results of re-evaluation, or 
is found to have failed to 
secure the safety or 
efficacy of a medical 
device according to a 
result of re-evaluation in 
violation of Article 9 of 
the Act (including cases 
applied mutatis mutandis 
under Article 15 (6) of 
the Act) 
Article 36 
(1) 6 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
Failure to undergo re-
evaluation 
 
2-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import 
 
b.  Failure to take measures 
(excluding measures of 
labeling, writing, 
collection, and disposal) 
based on the results of 
re-evaluation 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
5-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import 
c.  
Failure to secure the 
safety or efficacy of a 
medical device according 
to a result of re-
 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval/ 
certification or 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
136 
 
evaluation 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import 
7.  If a manufacturer or 
importer manufactures a 
medical device at a 
facility that does not 
meet the relevant 
standards or imports a 
medical device 
manufactured at such a 
facility in violation of 
Article 10 (2) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 7 of the 
Act 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
/import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product 
 
 
8.  If a manufacturer or 
importer fails to obtain 
approval or certification 
for modification or report 
modification in violation 
of Article 12 (1) of the 
Act (including cases 
applied mutatis mutandis 
under Article 15 (6) of 
the Act) 
Article 36 
(1) 8 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  Modification of the 
address of a 
manufacturing/import 
business place (including 
the addition of a factory) 
 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing 
/import activities 
3-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities 
6-month of 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/
import 
business 
license 
b.  Modification of the 
representative or name of 
a manufacturing/import 
business 
 
Warning 
15-day 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities 
c.  Modification of the form, 
specification, or material 
of some of the 
components of a medical 
device 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
/import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import 
 
d.  Replacement of a quality 
manager 
 
Warning 
7-day suspension 
of all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities 
15-day 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities 
e.  If a manufacturer or 
 
1-month 
3-month 
6-month 
Revocation of 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
137 
 
importer fails to submit 
documents describing 
minor changes in the 
appearance, packaging 
materials, packaging units, 
etc. of a medical device 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
/import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
/import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import 
f.  
If a medical device is 
manufactured/imported 
and distributed somewhere 
other than an approved 
manufacturing/import 
business’ facility 
 
6-month of 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import business 
license 
 
 
9.  If a manufacturer fails to 
comply with the matters 
to be observed for 
manufacturing and quality 
management or 
production management 
under Article 27 (1) in 
violation of Article 13 (1) 
of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 9 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
If a factory is not sanitarily 
managed or contamination 
therein is not prevented in 
violation of Article 27 (1) 
1 
 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
business license, 
revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product, or 
prohibition of 
manufacture of 
the relevant 
product 
b.  If an object that may 
cause harm is placed or 
the leak or release of 
harmful substances is not 
prevented in the work 
place in violation of 
Article 27 (1) 2 
 
2-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
4-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
business license, 
revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product, or 
prohibition of 
manufacture of 
the relevant 
product 
c.  If a quality manual under  
3-month 
6-month 
Revocation of 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
138 
 
subparagraph 2 of Annex 
2 has not been prepared 
and kept in violation of 
Article 27 (1) 10 or 11 
suspension of all 
manufacturing 
activities 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities 
manufacturing 
approval 
d.  If documents on the 
warehousing and release 
of raw materials and 
finished products, 
manufacturing process, 
and quality management 
are not prepared and kept 
in violation of Article 27 
(1) 3 and documents on 
the quality management 
system under 
subparagraph 2 of Annex 
2 have not been prepared 
and kept in violation of 
Article 27 (1) 10 or 11 
 
2-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
4-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
business license 
or revocation 
of 
manufacturing 
approval/certifi
cation of the 
relevant 
product 
e.  In cases of any non-
compliance with the 
content of the quality 
management system 
document under 
subparagraph 2 of Annex 
2 in violation of Article 
27 (1) 4 through 8 or 13 
or subparagraph 10 or 11 
of the same paragraph 
 
 
 
 
1)  Any violation of 4 
Article 27 (1) 4 through 8 
or any non-compliance 
with the content of the 
document regarding 
production management 
(manufacturing processes), 
testing and inspection, 
design management 
(including validation), and 
corrective and preventive 
measures (including 
customer complaint 
handling records) under 
subparagraph 2 of Annex 
2 in violation of Article 
27 (1) 10 or 11 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
business license 
or revocation 
of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product 
2)  Any non-compliance with 
the content of the 
document regarding 
purchase management, 
15-day 
suspension of all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
1-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
3-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
6-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
139 
 
non-conforming product 
management, measuring 
equipment management, 
document/record 
management, and internal 
quality audit under 
subparagraph 2 of Annex 
2 in violation of Article 
27 (1) 10 or 11 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
3)  Any violation of Article 
27 (1) 13 or any non-
compliance with the 
content of the document 
on other matters under 
subparagraph 2 of Annex 
2 in violation of Article 
27 (1) 10 or 11 
Warning 
Seven-day 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
15-day 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
f.  
If manufacturing and 
quality inspection records 
per batch are created 
falsely in violation of 
Article 27 (1) 4 or 
manufacturing records or 
testing and inspection 
records under 
subparagraph 2 of Annex 
2 are created falsely in 
violation of Article 27 (1) 
10 or 11 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product 
 
 
g.  Deleted. <Jan 21, 2022> 
 
 
 
 
h.  If necessary safety 
measures are not taken in 
violation of Article 27 (1) 
9 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
business license, 
revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product, or 
prohibition of 
manufacture of 
the relevant 
product 
 
i. 
If a medical device is 
distributed without 
obtaining the recognition 
of conformity under 
subparagraph 2 of Annex 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
140 
 
2 in violation of Article 
27 (1) 10 or 11 
product 
j.  
If a manufacturer fails to 
undergo a periodical 
inspection on conformity 
with the quality 
management standards 
under subparagraph 2 of 
Annex 2 in violation of 
Article 27 (1) 10 or 11 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
manufacture of 
the relevant 
product 
 
k.  If a manufacturer fails to 
maintain facility and 
quality management 
systems or perform 
manufacturing and quality 
management or production 
management in compliance 
with the latest standards 
in violation of Article 27 
(1) 12 
15-day 
suspension of all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
l.  
If a manufacturer fails to 
comply with the matters 
to be observed when 
purchasing medical 
devices manufactured by 
their company from a 
medical institution in 
violation of Article 27 (1) 
15 
 
 
 
 
1)  If the relevant device is 
not inspected or no 
inspection certificate has 
been attached thereto in 
violation of Article 27 (1) 
 
15 (a) 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
manufacture of 
the relevant 
product 
2)  In case of failure to 
prepare, keep, or preserve 
records in violation of 
Article 27 (1) 15 (b) 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
m.  If a manufacturer fails to 
comply with the matters 
 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
141 
 
to be observed when an 
inspection is requested 
from a distributor or 
lessor in violation of 
Article 27 (1) 16 
1)  In case of issuing an 
inspection certificate 
without carrying out an 
inspection according to 
the medical device 
manufacturing and quality 
management standards in 
violation of Article 27 (1) 
16 (a) 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
manufacture of 
the relevant 
product 
 
2)  In case of non-
compliance with the 
matters prescribed and 
publicly notified by the 
Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety in violation 
of Article 27 (1) 16 (b) 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
9-2.  If a manufacturer fails to 
report the production and 
import performance of 
medical devices in 
violation of Article 13 
(2) of the Act (including 
cases applied mutatis 
mutandis under Article 15 
(6)) 
Article 36 
(1) 9-2 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  In case of failure to 
report matters under each 
subparagraph of Article 
27 (2) and each 
subparagraph of Article 
33 (2) or in case of false 
report 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant 
product 
b.  In case of making a 
report on matters under 
Article 27 (2) 2 and 
Article 33 (2) 2 in 
violation of the 
procedures or methods 
prescribed and publicly 
 
7-day suspension 
of distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant item 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant 
product 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
142 
 
notified by the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety 
10.  If a manufacturer or 
importer provides 
economic benefits, etc. in 
violation of Article 13 
(3) of the Act (including 
cases applied mutatis 
mutandis under Article 15 
(6) of the Act) 
Article 36 
(1) 10 of 
the Act 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
 
11.  If an importer fails to meet 
the facility standards under 
Annex 4 in violation of 
Article 15 (4) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 3 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  In case of failure to 
secure a business facility 
or warehouse 
 
6-month 
suspension of all 
import activities 
Revocation of 
import business 
license 
 
 
b.  
In case of failure to secure 
a storage facility necessary 
for handling the relevant 
medical devices in the 
warehouse 
 
1-month 
suspension of all 
import activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of all 
import activities 
Revocation of 
import business 
license 
c.  
If some of the facilities 
required of the relevant 
product are either absent 
or unavailable 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-year 
suspension of 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities 
d.  In case of noncompliance 
with other facility 
management standards 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
1-month 
suspension of 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
import 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
12.  If an importer fails to 
comply with the matters 
to be observed for import 
and quality control or 
import management in 
violation of Article 13 (1) 
of the Act, which applies 
mutatis mutandis under 
Article 15 (6) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 9 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
If an importing business 
facility is not sanitarily 
managed or contamination 
therein is not prevented in 
 
1-month 
suspension of all 
import activities 
or import 
3-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
6-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
Revocation of 
import business 
license, 
revocation of 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
143 
 
violation of Article 33 (1) 
1 
activities of the 
relevant product 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
the import 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product, or 
prohibition of 
import of the 
relevant 
product 
b.  If an importer fails to 
prepare and keep 
documents in storage, 
warehousing and release, 
and quality management 
of imported medical 
devices and their 
accessories, or device 
master records and written 
import management 
standards under Article 33 
(1) 7 and 8 subparagraph 
2 
 
3-month 
suspension of all 
import activities 
or import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
the import 
business permit 
or prohibition 
of import 
 
c.  If an importer fails to 
prepare and keep 
documents on quality 
management tasks other 
than those prescribed in 
Article 33 (1) 7 and 8 
 
2-month 
suspension of all 
import activities 
or import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Four-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
import business 
license, 
revocation of 
the import 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product, or 
prohibition of 
import of the 
relevant 
product 
d.  If any provision among 
Article 33 (1) 3 through 6 
or 10 through 13 is 
violated, or the content of 
the related documents are 
not observed 
 
 
 
 
 
1)  In case of violating any 
of Article 33 (1) 3 
through 6 or 12 or not 
observing the content of 
the documents prepared 
on the corrective and 
preventive measures 
(including customer 
complaint handling 
 
1-month 
suspension of all 
import activities 
or import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
import business 
license, 
revocation of 
the import 
approval/certifi
cation of the 
relevant 
product, or 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
144 
 
records), testing and 
inspection, and 
examination of the 
manufacturing and quality 
management status of the 
foreign manufacturer in 
violation of Article 33 
(1) 11 
prohibition of 
import of the 
relevant product 
2)  In case of disobeying the 
content of the documents 
prepared on the storage 
and release of medical 
devices, storage facilities, 
and testing facility 
management in violation 
of Article 33 (1) 2 and 
10 
15-day 
suspension of all 
import activities 
or import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
3)  In case of violating 
Article 33 (1) 13 or not 
observing the content of 
the documents prepared 
on other matters 
Warning 
7-day 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
15-day 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
1-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
e.  If an importer falsely 
creates import and quality 
management records per 
import unit in violation of 
Article 33 (1) 3 or falsely 
creates testing and 
inspection records under 
subparagraphs 7 and 8 of 
the same Article 
6-month 
suspension of 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
import 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
import of the 
relevant 
product 
 
 
f.  
Deleted. <Jan 21, 2022> 
 
 
 
 
g.  If an importer fails to 
take necessary safety 
measures in violation of 
Article 33 (1) 14 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities for the 
relevant item 
3-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities for 
the relevant 
item 
6-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing 
activities or 
manufacturing 
activities for the 
relevant item 
Revocation of 
import business 
license, 
revocation of 
the import 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product, or 
prohibition of 
import of the 
relevant 
product 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
145 
 
h.  
If a medical device is 
distributed without being 
recognized for conformity 
under subparagraph 3 of 
Annex 4 in violation of 
Article 33 (1) 15 
6-month 
suspension of 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
the importing 
permit/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product 
 
 
i.  
If an imported medical 
device factory fails to 
undergo a periodical 
inspection under 
subparagraph 3 of Annex 
4 in violation of Article 
33 (1) 15 
3-month 
suspension of 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
the importing 
permit/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product 
 
j.  
If an importer fails to 
observe the import and 
export guidelines for 
medical devices publicly 
notified by the Minister of 
Trade, Industry and 
Resources and the 
regulations on the 
management of imported 
medical devices prescribed 
by the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety in 
violation of Article 33 (1) 16 
1-month 
suspension of all 
import activities 
or import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
import business 
license, 
revocation of 
the import 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product, or 
prohibition of 
import of the 
relevant product 
k.  If an importer fails to 
comply with the matters 
to be observed when 
importing used medical 
devices or purchasing 
medical devices imported 
by their company from a 
medical institution in 
violation of Article 33 (1) 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
1)  In case of failure to 
inspect imported medical 
devices or when releasing 
them without attaching 
inspection certificates 
thereto in violation of 
Article 33 (1) 19 (a) 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
import 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
import of the 
relevant item 
2)  In case of failure to 
prepare, keep, or preserve 
records in violation of 
Article 33 (1) 19 (b) 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
146 
 
relevant product 
the relevant 
product 
relevant product the relevant 
product 
l.  
If an importer fails to 
comply with the matters 
to be observed when 
requested to conduct an 
inspection by a distributor 
or lessor in violation of 
Article 33 (1) 20 
 
 
 
 
 
1)  In case of issuing an 
inspection certificate 
without conducting an 
inspection following the 
medical device 
manufacturing and quality 
management standards in 
violation of Article 33 
(1) 20 (a) 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
import 
approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
import of the 
relevant item 
2)  In case of non-
compliance with the 
matters prescribed and 
publicly notified by the 
Minister of Food and 
Drug Safety in violation 
of Article 33 (1) 20 (b) 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
m.  If an importer fails to 
maintain facilities and 
quality management 
systems or conduct 
manufacture and quality 
management or import 
management following the 
latest standards in 
violation of Article 33 (1) 
17 
 
15-day 
suspension of all 
import activities 
or import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
all import 
activities or 
import 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
13.  If a repairer falls under 
any of the subparagraphs 
of Article 6 (1) of the 
Act, which applies 
mutatis mutandis under 
Article 16 (4) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 1 of the 
Act 
Closure of the 
repair shop 
 
 
 
13-2. If a repairer files a 
notification under Article 
16 (1) of the Act, or a 
notification of change 
under Article 12 (1), which 
applies mutatis mutandis 
under Article 16 (4) of the 
Act, by fraudulent or other 
Article 36 
(1) 1-2 of 
the Act 
Closure of the 
business 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
147 
 
improper means 
14.  If a repairer fails to meet 
the facility and quality 
management system 
standards in Annex 5 in 
violation of Article 16 (2) 
of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 3 of the 
Act 
2-month 
suspension of all 
repair activities 
5-month 
suspension of 
all repair 
activities 
8-month 
suspension of all 
repair activities 
Closure of the 
repair shop 
15.  If a repairer fails to 
make a notification of 
modification in violation 
of Article 12 (1) of the 
Act, which applies 
mutatis mutandis under 
Article 16 (4) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 8 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
Modification of the 
representative or name of 
the business 
 
Warning 
7-day 
suspension of 
all repair 
activities 
15-day 
suspension of all 
repair activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
all repair 
activities 
b.  Modification of other 
notified matters including 
the address of the 
business 
 
1-month 
suspension of all 
repair activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
all repair 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of all 
repair activities 
Closure of the 
repair shop 
16.  If a repairer fails to 
comply with the matters 
to be observed for repair 
management under Article 
36 in violation of Article 
13 (1) of the Act, which 
applies mutatis mutandis 
under Article 16 (4) of 
the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 9 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
In case of repairing a 
medical device by altering 
inconsistently the details 
permitted, certified, or 
notified in violation of 
Article 36 (1) 
 
3-month 
suspension of all 
repair activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
all repair 
activities 
Closure of the 
repair shop 
 
b.  If the trade name and 
address of the repairer is 
not stated on a container 
or outer package of a 
repaired medical device 
in violation of Article 36 
(2) 
 
1-month 
suspension of all 
repair activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
all repair 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of all 
repair activities 
Closure of the 
repair shop 
c.  If the details of repair 
are not notified to the 
person who has requested 
such repair in violation of 
 
1-month 
suspension of all 
repair activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
all repair 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of all 
repair activities 
Closure of the 
repair shop 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
148 
 
Article 36 (3) 
17.  If a distributor or lessor 
falls under Article 6 (1) 
2, 4, or 5 of the Act, 
which applies mutatis 
mutandis under Article 17 
(3) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 1 of the 
Act 
Closure of the 
business 
 
 
 
17-2. If a distributor or lessor 
files a notification under 
Article 17 (1) of the Act, or 
a notification of change 
under Article 12 (1), which 
applies mutatis mutandis 
under Article 17 (3) of the 
Act, by fraudulent or other 
improper means 
Article 36 
(1) 1-2 of 
the Act 
Closure of the 
business 
 
 
 
18.  If a distributor or lessor 
fails to file a notification 
of modification in 
violation of Article 12 
(1) of the Act, which 
applies mutatis mutandis 
under Article 17 (3) of 
the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 8 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
Modification of the 
business address 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution/lease 
business activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution/leas
e business 
activities 
Closure of the 
business 
b.  Modification of the 
representative or business 
name 
 
Warning 
3-day 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
7-day 
suspension of 
distribution/leas
e business 
activities 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
19.  If a distributor or a lessor 
fails to comply with the 
matters to be observed for 
the maintenance of 
distribution order under 
Articles 39 and 40 in 
violation of Article 18 (1) 
of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 11 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  In case of violating 
Articles 39 and 40 
(excluding subparagraph 4 
of Article 39 and 
subparagraphs 3 (a) and 4 
of Article 40) 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution/lease 
business activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution/leas
e business 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
149 
 
b.  In case of non-compliance 
with the medical device 
distribution quality 
management standards 
under Annex 6 in 
violation Article 39 (4) 
 
 
 
 
 
1)  If refrigeration facilities 
are not secured or in an 
unusable state 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution/lease 
business activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution/leas 
e business 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution/leas
e business 
activities 
Closure of the 
business 
2)  If medical devices with 
set storage temperatures 
that are not stored in 
places with the proper 
temperatures under 
subparagraph 2 of Annex 
6 are maintained or where 
the proper temperatures 
are not maintained 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution/lease 
business activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution/leas 
e business 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution/leas
e business 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution/lea
s e business 
activities 
3)  If the ledgers required for 
documentation have not 
been prepared or kept 
 
7-day suspension 
of 
distribution/lease 
business activities 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
4)  In case of any other 
violation of the medical 
device distribution quality 
management standards 
 
Warning 
Three-day 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
Seven-day 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
c.  In case of violations of 
subparagraphs 3 (a) and 4 
of Article 40 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution/lease 
business activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution/leas 
e business 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution/leas
e business 
activities 
Closure of the 
business 
20.  If a distributor or a 
lessor provides economic 
benefits, etc., in violation 
of Article 18 (2) of the 
Act 
Article 36 
(1) 10 of 
the Act 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution/lease 
business activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
Closure of the 
business 
 
20-2. If a medical device sales 
representative falls under 
Article 6 (1) 2 (limited to 
persons under adult 
guardianship or limited 
guardianship), 4, 4-2, or 5 
of the Act, which applies 
mutatis mutandis under 
Article 36 
(1) 1 of the 
Act 
Closure of the 
business 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
150 
 
Article 18-2 (3) of the Act; 
provided, however, that 
this shall not apply where 
an heir transfers the status 
of the medical device sales 
representative within six 
months pursuant to Article 
47 (2) of the Act 
20-3. If a medical device sales 
representative files a 
notification or a 
notification of change 
under Article 18-2 (1) of 
the Act by fraudulent or 
other improper means 
Article 36 
(1) 1-2 of 
the Act 
Revocation 
notification or 
closure of the 
business 
 
 
 
20-4. If a medical device sales 
representative who has 
been entrusted by a 
manufacturer or an 
importer with the activities 
of promoting the sale of 
medical devices (including 
the representative, 
directors, and other persons 
engaged in such activities 
in the case of a corporation, 
and including persons 
engaged in such activities 
in the case of a non-
corporate entity) provides 
economic benefits, etc. in 
violation of Article 13 (3) 
of the Act (including cases 
applied mutatis mutandis 
under Article 15 (6) of the 
Act) 
Article 36 
(1) 10 of 
the Act 
1-month 
suspension of 
promotional 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
promotional 
activities 
Closure of the 
business 
 
20-5. If a medical device sales 
representative who has 
been entrusted by a 
distributor or a lessor with 
the activities of promoting 
the sale or lease of medical 
devices (including the 
representative, directors, 
and other persons engaged 
in such activities in the 
case of a corporation, and 
including persons engaged 
in such activities in the 
case of a non-corporate 
Article 36 
(1) 10 of 
the Act 
1-month 
suspension of 
sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
Closure of the 
business 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
151 
 
entity) provides economic 
benefits, etc. in violation of 
Article 18 (2) of the Act 
20-6. If a medical device sales 
representative fails to meet 
the criteria for notification 
under Article 18-2 (1) of 
the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 11-2 of 
the Act 
1-month 
suspension of 
sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
Closure of the 
business 
20-7. If a medical device sales 
representative engages a 
person who has not 
completed the training 
required under Article 18-3 
(1) of the Act to perform 
medical device 
promotional activities, in 
violation of the same 
paragraph 
Article 36 
(1) 11-3 of 
the Act 
15-day 
suspension of 
sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
20-8. If a medical device sales 
representative fails to 
notify, in writing 
(including an electronic 
document under Article 2 
(1) 1 of the Framework Act 
on Electronic Documents 
and Transactions), the 
manufacturer, importer, 
distributor, or lessor who 
entrusted the promotional 
activities for the sale or 
lease of medical devices of 
the fact that the 
representative has re-
entrusted all or part of such 
activities, in violation of 
Article 18-4 (1) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 11-4 of 
the Act 
3-day suspension 
of sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
7-day 
suspension of 
sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
15-day 
suspension of 
sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
sales or lease 
promotional 
activities 
20-9. If a manufacturer, 
importer, or distributor 
distributes a supposedly 
sealed medical device its 
container or package 
opened in violation of 
Article 18-5 of the Act  
Article 36 
(1) 
11-5 of the 
Act 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution/lease 
business activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution/leas 
e business 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution/leas
e business 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution/lea
s e business 
activities 
21. If a manufacturer or 
importer fails to label a 
container or outer package 
of a medical device with 
the descriptions under 
Article 20 of the Act in 
Article 36 
(1) 12 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
152 
 
violation of the said 
Article 
a.  
In cases where all 
descriptions are omitted 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval/ 
certification for 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
the manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
 
b.  In cases where parts of 
the descriptions are 
omitted 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification for 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant 
product 
22.  If the descriptions under 
Article 20, written on a 
container or outer package 
of a medical device, are 
unreadable because they 
are covered by an outer 
container or another outer 
package and when a 
manufacturer or importer 
fails to write such 
descriptions on the outer 
container or the other 
outer package in violation 
of Article 21 
Article 36 
(1) 12 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
In cases where all 
descriptions are omitted 
 
Two-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Four-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification for 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
153 
 
product 
b.  In cases where parts of 
the descriptions are 
omitted 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
23.  If a manufacturer or 
importer fails to write the 
descriptions under Article 
20 in a package insert of 
a medical device in 
violation of Article 22 
Article 36 
(1) 12 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
In cases where all 
descriptions are omitted 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import 
b.  In cases where parts of 
the descriptions are 
omitted 
 
7-day suspension 
of distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
24.  If a manufacturer/importer 
fails to observe 
requirements for the 
labeling of a medical 
device with the 
descriptions under Article 
20 in violation of Article 
23 of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 12 of 
the Act 
Warning 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
25.  If any prohibited 
description is indicated or 
written on a container, 
package, or package 
insert of a medical device 
in violation of Article 24 
(1) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 13 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
If the descriptions under 
Article 43 (1) 1, 2 or 4 
are indicated or written 
differently from the 
permitted or certified 
ones 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
154 
 
import 
b.  If the descriptions under 
subparagraphs 1 or 2 of 
Article 22 of the Act or 
those under Article 43 (1) 
3, 6, or 7 are indicated or 
written differently from 
the permitted or certified 
ones 
 
2-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
4-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
c.  If the descriptions under 
Article 43 (1) 8 are 
indicated or written 
differently from the 
permitted or certified ones 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
d.  If a false or misleading 
description under Article 
24 (1) 1 of the Act is 
indicated or written 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
e.  If the other descriptions 
under Articles 20 through 
22 of the Act and Article 
43 are indicated or written 
differently from the 
permitted or certified 
ones 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
26.  If a person makes any of 
the advertisements falling 
under Article 45 (1) 1 and 
2, which correspond the 
advertisements prescribed 
in Annex 7 in violation of 
Article 24 (2) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 14 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  In case of an 
advertisement falling 
under subparagraphs 1, 2, 
5, 12 or 15 of Annex 7 
 
 
 
 
 
1)  A manufacturer or an 
importer 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
3-month 
suspension of 
6-month 
suspension of 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
155 
 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
2)  A distributor or a lessor 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution/lease 
business activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
b.  In case of an 
advertisement falling 
under any of 
subparagraphs 3, 4, 6 
through 11, 13, 14, and 
16 through 18 of Annex 7 
 
 
 
 
 
1)  A manufacturer or an 
importer 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
2)  A distributor or a lessor 
 
7-day suspension 
of 
distribution/lease 
business activities 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution/leas 
e business 
activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution/leas
e business 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution/lea
s e business 
activities 
26-2. If a 
manufacturer/importer 
distributes a medical 
device without sealing its 
container or package in 
violation of Article 25-5 
of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 14-2 of 
the Act 
1-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
9-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/
import 
activities of the 
relevant 
product 
27.  In case of any violation 
of Article 30 of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 14-4 
and 15 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  If records on medical 
devices subject to tracking 
and control have not been 
created, kept, or submitted 
or such records have been 
falsely created, kept, or 
submitted in violation of 
Article 30 (1) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 14-4 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
156 
 
1)  A manufacturer or an 
importer 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval or 
certification for 
the relevant 
product 
2)  A repairer, a distributor, 
or a lessor 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
repair/distribution
/ lease activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
1-year 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
b.  If an order to submit 
data on medical devices 
subject to tracking and 
control, etc. is disobeyed 
without just causes in 
violation of Article 30 
Paragraph 2 of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 15 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
1)  A manufacturer or an 
importer 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
2-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
2)  A repairer, a distributor, 
or a lessor 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
repair/distribution
/ lease activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
2-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
28.  If a medical device 
handler fails to report 
adverse effects or keep 
relevant records in 
violation of Article 31 (1) 
of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 16 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
A manufacturer or an 
importer 
 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
or manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities or 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
or 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
b.  A repairer, a distributor, 
or a lessor 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
1-month 
suspension of 
3-month 
suspension of 
6-month 
suspension of 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
157 
 
repair/distribution
/ lease activities 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
29.  If a medical device 
handler fails to recall a 
medical device or take 
measures necessary for 
the recall or report a 
recall plan in violation of 
Article 31 (2) of the Act 
or fails to obey the order 
to announce a recall plan 
in violation of paragraph 
(3) of said Article 
Article 36 
(1) 17 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  If a repairer, a 
distributor, or a lessor 
fails to suspend the 
repair, distribution, or 
lease of a medical device 
subject to recall in 
violation of Article 52 
(1) 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
repair/distribution
/ lease activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
b.  If a repairer, a 
distributor, or a lessor 
fails to issue a notice to a 
person responsible for 
recall in violation of 
Article 52 (1) 
 
3-day suspension 
of repair/ 
distribution/ lease 
activities 
7-day 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
15-day 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
c.  
If a manufacturer or an 
importer fails to take 
measures, such as the 
suspension of distribution 
of a medical device 
subject to recall, in 
violation of Article 52 (3) 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
 
d.  If a manufacturer or an 
importer fails to submit a 
recall plan or submits one 
falsely in violation of 
Article 52 (3) 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
or manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities or 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
or 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
e.  If a manufacturer or an 
importer disobeys an order 
to supplement a recall 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
158 
 
plan under Article 52 (6) 
activities of the 
relevant product 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
activities of the 
relevant product 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
f.  
If a manufacturer or an 
importer fails to announce 
a recall plan in violation 
of Article 53 (1) 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
g.  If the manufacturer or an 
importer fails to inform 
the handlers of a medical 
device subject to recall of 
the entire or part of the 
recall plan in violation of 
Article 53 (3) 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
h.  If a repairer, a distributor, 
or a lessor fails to take 
measures, such as the 
return of medical devices 
subject to recall according 
to Article 53 (4) or fails 
to send a written 
confirmation of recall to 
the person responsible for 
recall 
3-day suspension 
of repair/ 
distribution/ lease 
activities 
7-day 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
15-day 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
i.  
If a manufacturer or an 
importer fails to destroy 
returned or recalled 
medical devices or take 
measures to prevent any 
harm or prepare a recall 
evaluation report in 
violation of Article 54 (1) 
and (2) 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
j.  
If a manufacturer or an 
importer fails to keep a 
written confirmation of 
destruction in violation of 
Article 54 (2) 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
159 
 
k.  If a manufacturer or an 
importer fails to submit a 
recall completion report 
or submits one falsely in 
violation of Article 54 (3) 
 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
or manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities or 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities of the 
relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
or 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
29-2. If the details of the 
provision of a medical 
device are not reported or 
falsely reported in 
violation of Article 31-2 
(1) of the Act  
a.  
If details of the provision 
of medical devices are 
n o t reported  
1) 
A manufacturer or an 
importer   
 
 
 
 
2) 
A distributor or a lessor 
Article 36 
(1) 
17-2 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warning 
 
 
 
Warning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant item 
 
 
7-day 
suspension of 
distribution/lea 
se business 
activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant 
product 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution/leas 
e activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution/lea 
se activities 
b.  If the details of the 
provision of medical 
devices are reported 
falsely 
1)  A manufacturer or an 
importer 
 
 
 
 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant item 
 
 
 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
 
 
 
 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant 
product 
 
 
 
 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant 
product 
2)  A distributor or a lessor 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
1-month 
suspension of 
3-month 
suspension of 
6-month 
suspension of 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
160 
 
distribution/ 
lease business 
activities 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
29-3. If information is not 
registered in the integrated 
medical device 
information system in 
violation of Article 31-3 
(2) of the Act or the 
standards for integrated 
medical device 
information management 
are not observed in 
violation of Article 31-3 
(3) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 17-3 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
If information is not 
registered in the integrated 
medical device 
information system 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant item 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
b.  If the standards for 
integrated medical device 
information management 
are not observed 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant item 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant 
product 
29-4. If a medical device 
handler fails to report the 
discovery of a foreign 
substance or reports it 
falsely in violation of 
Article 31-5 (1) of the 
Act 
Article 36 
(1) 18 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
A manufacturer or an 
importer 
 
15-day 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
b.  A repairer, a distributor, 
or a lessor 
 
7-day suspension 
of 
repair/distribution
/ lease activities 
15-day 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
161 
 
30.  If a medical device 
handler fails to obey an 
order to file a report 
under Article 32 (1) of 
the Act or rejects, 
impedes, or evades the 
access, inspection, 
questioning, or collection 
of a relevant medical 
device by a competent 
public official 
Article 36 
(1) 19 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
A manufacturer or an 
importer 
 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
or two-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities or 5-
month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities of the 
relevant product 
6-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
or eight-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
business 
license 
b.  A repairer, a distributor, 
or a lessor 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
repair/distribution
/ lease activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
Closure of the 
repair 
shop/business 
31.  If the results of an 
inspection, etc. under 
Article 32 or Article 33 
of the Act conducted for 
a medical device 
manufactured or imported 
by a manufacturer or an 
importer for the purpose 
of distribution fall under 
any of the following 
Article 36 
(1) 20 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  If the test results on 
physical and chemical 
properties do not meet the 
relevant standards 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
b.  If the test results on 
electrical/mechanical 
 
 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
162 
 
safety do not meet the 
relevant standards 
1)  If the test results on 
power input, voltage 
and/or energy limitation, 
continuous leakage 
currents and patient 
auxiliary currents, 
withstand voltage, 
mechanical strength, X-
rays, over temperature, 
overflow/discharge/leakage
/moisture/liquid intrusion, 
cleaning/disinfection and 
sterilization, safety for 
hazardous output, and 
abnormal operation and 
fault condition do not 
meet the relevant 
standards. 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
the 
manufacturing/ 
import approval/ 
certification of 
the relevant 
product or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant item 
 
2)  If the test results on 
outer packing and 
protective covering, 
protective/functional 
grounding and equalization 
(making electric potentials 
equal), stability during 
normal use, scattering 
objects, pressure vessels 
and areas under pressure, 
parts and assembly in 
general, power supply 
units (components and 
arrangement), structure, 
and arrangement do not 
meet the relevant 
standards 
 
2-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
4-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
3)  
If the results of other 
electrical and mechanical 
safety tests do not meet 
the relevant standards 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
c.  
If the test results on 
biological safety do not 
meet the relevant 
standards 
 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
163 
 
of the relevant 
product 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
d.  If the test results on 
radiation safety do not 
meet the relevant 
standards 
 
 
 
 
1)  If the test results on X-
ray leakage limitation, 
filtration, X-ray flux 
limitation for X-ray 
equipment for imaging, 
restriction of use of 
primary protective 
barriers, X-ray flux 
limitation for fluoroscopy 
equipment, protection 
against scattering 
radiation from the vicinity 
of fluoroscopy equipment, 
and limitation of entrance 
radiation dose rates do 
not meet the relevant 
standards 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
 
2)  If the test results on 
distance (source to image 
distance and source to 
skin distance) setting, 
structure for safety of 
major parts (X-ray control 
device, high voltage 
generator, X-ray tube 
device, X-ray field 
limiting device, X-ray 
machine device, XTV 
monitor, image intensifier, 
etc.) do not meet the 
relevant standards 
2-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
4-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
3)  
If the results of other 
radiation safety tests do not 
meet the relevant standards 
1-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
164 
 
e.  If the test results on 
electromagnetic safety do 
not meet the relevant 
standards 
2-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
4-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
f.  
If the test results on 
performance do not meet 
the relevant standards 
15-day suspension 
of manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
1-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/
import 
activities of the 
relevant 
product 
g.  If the results of sterility 
tests do not meet the 
relevant standards 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
 
h.  
If the results of ethylene 
oxide (EO) gas residual 
tests do not meet the 
relevant standards 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval/ 
certification or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
i.  
If the results of other 
tests do not meet the 
relevant standards 
 
15-day suspension 
of manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
1-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
32.  If a manufacturer or an 
importer fails to obey an 
order to undergo an 
inspection under Article 
33 of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 21 of 
the Act 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
or 2-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities or 6-
month 
suspension of 
distribution 
6-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities, 
revocation of 
manufacturing/im
p ort approval or 
certification for 
the relevant 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
business 
license 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
165 
 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
product, or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant product 
33.  If a medical device 
manufacturer, etc. 
disobeys an order under 
Article 34 of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 21 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
In case of disobeying a 
recall or disposal order 
 
 
 
 
 
1)  A manufacturer or an 
importer 
 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
3-month of 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities 
6-month of 
suspension of all 
manufacturing 
/import activities 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import business 
license 
2)  A repairer, a distributor, 
or a lessor 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
repair/distribution/ 
lease activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
repair/distributio
n/ lease 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
repair/distribution
/ lease activities 
Closure of the 
repair 
shop/business 
b.  In case of disobeying 
other orders 
 
 
 
 
 
1)  A manufacturer or an 
importer 
 
15-day suspension 
of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
6-month of 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing/
import 
activities 
2)  A repairer, a distributor, 
or a lessor 
 
15-day suspension 
of repair/ 
distribution/ lease 
activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
repair/distribution
/ lease activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
33-2. If a medical device 
manufacturer, etc. fails to 
obtain insurance, etc. in 
violation of Article 43-6 of 
the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 21-2 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
a.  
In case of non-compliance 
with the insured amount 
requirement under Article 
12-6 (1) of the Decree 
 
Warning 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant item 
2-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
b.  In case of non-
compliance with the 
 
Warning 
2-month 
suspension of 
4-month 
suspension of 
6-month 
suspension of 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
166 
 
insurance purchase time 
requirement under Article 
12-6 (2) of the Decree 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
c.  In case of non-
compliance with both the 
insured amount and 
insurance purchase time 
requirements under Article 
12-6 (1) and (2) of the 
Decree 
 
Warning 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Prohibition of 
the distribution 
of the relevant 
product 
34.  If a medical device 
manufacturer, etc., 
manufactures, imports, 
repairs, distributes, or 
leases a medical device 
that poses harm, is likely 
to pose harm to public 
health, or that is deemed 
to have no valid 
performance, efficacy, or 
effectiveness 
Article 36 
(1) 22 of 
the Act 
 
 
 
 
1)  A manufacturer or an 
importer 
 
15-day suspension 
of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
or 
1-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
1-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
or 3-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
of the relevant 
product 
3-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/im
p ort activities 
or 6-month 
suspension of 
manufacturing/im
p ort activities 
of the relevant 
product 
6-month 
suspension of 
all 
manufacturing/ 
import 
activities, 
revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval or 
certification for 
the relevant 
product, or 
prohibition of 
manufacture/ 
imp ort of the 
relevant 
product 
2)  A repairer, a distributor, 
or a lessor 
 
7-day suspension 
of repair/ 
distribution/ lease 
activities 
15-day 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
1-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution 
/lease activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
repair/ 
distribution/ 
lease activities 
35.  If a medical device 
manufacturer, etc. fails to 
secure a facility at the 
address where approval 
Article 36 
(1) 23 of 
the Act 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import business 
license or closure 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
167 
 
or certification has been 
obtained or a notification 
has been filed following 
the relevant laws 
of the repair 
shop/business 
36.  If business is conducted 
during the suspension 
period 
Article 36 
(1) 24 of 
the Act 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import approval/ 
certification, 
revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import business 
lincense, or 
closure of the 
repair 
shop/business 
 
 
 
37.  If a manufacturer or an 
importer manufactures or 
imports a medical device 
whose validity period has 
expired without renewing 
the manufacturing 
approval, etc., in violation 
of Article 49 (3) of the 
Act 
Article 36 
(1) 25 of 
the Act 
6-month 
suspension of all 
manufacturing/ 
import activities 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import business 
permit 
 
 
38.  If a manufacturer or an 
importer fails to fulfill the 
requirements imposed at 
the time of renewal under 
Article 49 (4) of the Act 
Article 36 
(1) 25 of 
the Act 
1-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
3-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of 
the relevant 
product 
5-month 
suspension of 
distribution 
activities of the 
relevant product 
Revocation of 
manufacturing/ 
import 
approval, 
certification, or 
notification 
receipt for the 
relevant product 
or prohibition 
of manufacture/ 
import of the 
relevant 
product 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
168 
 
■ 
ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT [Annex 9]  
<Amended on Jan. 16, 2024> 
 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions 
(Related to Article 58 (2)) 
 
I. 
General Standards 
1. 
In cases of 2 or more violations, the standard for the severest administrative disposition 
shall be followed: Provided, That if all the disposition standards correspond to business 
suspension, disposition may be imposed by adding 1/2 of each remaining disposition 
standard to the severest disposition standard within the range of 6 months. 
 
2. 
When a violation falls under any of the following and the disposition standard thereof 
corresponds to business suspension, the period of suspension may be reduced by 1/2 of 
the period set by the disposition standard, and when the disposition standard corresponds 
to the revocation of designation, such disposition may be mitigated into the suspension of 
the business from 3 to 6 months: 
a. 
When the violation does not have a significant impact on the results or is deemed to 
be a simple mistake; 
b. 
When the clinical trial subject to the disposition does not directly affect the 
safety of the subjects. 
 
3. 
The standards for aggravated administrative dispositions for cumulative violations shall 
apply when a person receives administrative dispositions for the same type of violations for 
the last 3 years. In such cases, the period shall be calculated based on the date when an 
administrative disposition was ordered for a violation and the date when the same 
violation is detected again: Provided, That when the same violation is detected during the 
period wherein the procedure for a previously received administrative disposition is in 
progress, 1/2 of the period of the dispositions set by the standards for each of the 
newly detected violations shall be added to the disposition period. 
 
4. 
When an aggravated additional disposition is ordered following subparagraph 3, such 
disposition shall be given the ordinal number subsequent to that of the disposition 
imposed right before the violation (in cases of 2 or more dispositions ordered within the 
period under subparagraph 3, the disposition with the highest ordinal number). 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
169 
 
II. 
Standards by Case 
1. 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions on Clinical Trial Institutions 
Violation 
Relevant 
Provisions 
Standards for Administrative Disposition 
1st Violation 
2nd Violation 
3rd Violation 
4th Violation 
or More 
a.  If an institution obtained 
designation by fraud or other 
improper means 
Article 37 
(1) 1 of the 
Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
 
b.  If an institution prepares or 
issues a falsified report on 
results of a clinical trial 
intentionally or by gross 
negligence 
Article 37 
(1) 2 of the 
Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
c.  
If an institution fails to meet 
any of the requirements for 
designation under Article 10 
(3) of the Act 
Article 37 
(1) 3 of the 
Act 
Warning 
3-month 
suspension of 
clinical trial 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
clinical trial 
activities 
Revocation of 
designation 
d.  If an institution fails to comply 
with any of the matters to be 
observed under Article 10 (5) 
of the Act 
Article 37 
(1) 4 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 
1)  In case of violating the 
regulations on the consent and 
protection of subjects in 
violation of Article 24 (1) 4 
and 5 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities and 
replacement of 
principal 
investigator 
6-month 
suspension of 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities and 
replacement of 
principal 
investigator 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
2)  In case of failure to preserve 
records and data in violation of 
Article 24 (3) 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
clinical trial 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
clinical trial 
activities 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
3)  In case of violating Annex 3 
 
 
 
 
 
a)  If a clinical trial is conducted 
according to an unapproved 
clinical trial protocol in 
violation of subparagraph 3 (f) 
of Annex 3 
 
6-month 
suspension of 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities and 
3-month 
exclusion of 
the relevant 
principal 
investigator 
from any 
clinical trial 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
b)  If a clinical trial is conducted 
differently from the initial 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
6-month 
suspension of 
Revocation of 
designation 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
170 
 
clinical trial protocol before the 
approval of a protocol 
amendment in violation of 
subparagraph 5 (b) of Annex 3 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities 
c)  If an institution operates an 
institutional review board (IRB) 
in violation of subparagraph 6 
of Annex 3 
 
Warning 
1-month 
suspension of 
the IRB’s 
duty of 
granting new 
clinical trial 
approvals 
3-month 
suspension of 
the IRB’s 
duty of 
granting new 
clinical trial 
approvals 
6-month 
suspension of 
the IRB’s 
duty of 
granting new 
clinical trial 
approvals 
d)  If an institution operates a 
designated IRB in violation of 
subparagraph 6 (e) of Annex 3 
 
One-month 
suspension of 
the designated 
IRB’s duty of 
granting new 
clinical trial 
approvals 
3-month 
suspension of 
the designated 
IRB’s duty of 
granting new 
clinical trial 
approvals 
6-month 
suspension of 
the designated 
IRB’s duty of 
granting new 
clinical trial 
approvals 
Revocation of 
the 
designation of 
the IRB 
e)  If an institution conducts a 
clinical trial that has not been 
approved by an IRB in 
violation of subparagraph 7 (d) 
of Annex 3 
 
3-month 
suspension of 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
f)  
If an institution conducts a 
clinical trial whose modification 
has not been approved by an 
IRB in violation of 
subparagraph 7 d of Attached 
Table 3 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities 
Revocation of 
designation 
g)  If an institution fails to comply 
with Annex 3 in relation to 
other matters 
 
Warning 
1-month 
suspension of 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities 
3-month 
suspension of 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities 
6-month 
suspension of 
the relevant 
clinical trial 
activities 
e.  If an institution continues its 
business activities are 
conducted during a period for 
which its business activities are 
suspended 
Article 37 
(1) 5 of the 
Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
171 
 
2. 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions on Quality Control Examination Agency 
Violation 
Relevant 
Provisions 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions 
1st Violation 
2nd Violation 
3rd Violation 
4th Violation 
or More 
a.  If an institution obtained 
designation by fraud or other 
improper means 
Article 37 
(1) 1 of the 
Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
 
b.  If an institution prepares or 
issues a falsified report on 
results of a quality control 
examination intentionally or by 
gross negligence 
Article 37 
(1) 2 of the 
Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
 
c.  
If an institution fails to meet 
any of the requirements for 
designation under Article 28 
(3) of the Act 
Article 37 
(1) 3 of the 
Act 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
d.  If an institution fails to 
comply with any of the matters 
to be observed under Article 28 
(4) of the Act 
Article 37 
(1) 4 of the 
Act 
 
 
 
 
1)  In case of failure to preserve 
records on any quality control 
examination in violation of 
Article 48 (4) 1 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
Revocation of 
designation 
2)  
In case of failure to report any 
quality control examination 
result in violation of Article 48 
(4) 2 
 
Warning 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3)  In case of failure to comply 
with the management standards 
for quality control examination 
agencies in violation of Article 
48 (4) 3. 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
Revocation of 
designation 
e.  If an institution continues its 
business during a period for 
which its business activities are 
suspended 
Article 37 
(1) 5 of the 
Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
172 
 
3. 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions on Institution Reviewing Technical Documents 
Violation 
Relevant 
Provisions 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions 
1st Violation 2nd Violation 3rd Violation 4th Violation 
or More 
a.  If an institution obtained 
designation by fraud or other 
improper means 
Article 37 (1) 
1 of the Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
 
b.  If an institution prepares or 
issues a falsified report on 
results of a technical document 
review intentionally or by gross 
negligence 
Article 37 (1) 
2 of the Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
c.  If an institution fails to meet 
any of the requirements for 
designation under Article 6-4 
(2) of the Act 
Article 37 (1) 
3 of the Act 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
d.  If an institution fails to 
comply with any of the matters 
to be observed Article 6-4 (3) 
of the Act 
Article 37 (1) 
4 of the Act 
 
 
 
 
1)  In case of failure to comply 
with the operating standards for 
institutions reviewing technical 
documents in violation of Article 
15-3 (1) 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
Revocation of 
designation 
2)  
In case of failure to report the 
results of a technical document 
review in violation of Article 
15-3 (2) 
 
Warning 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3)  In case of failure to keep a 
copy of a notice of a technical 
document review result and 
records regarding such review 
in violation of Article 15-3 (3) 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
Revocation of 
designation 
4)  In case of failure to comply 
with the matters determined 
and publicly notified by the 
Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety regarding the preparation 
and issuance of a notice of a 
technical document review 
result in violation of Article 15-3 
(4) 
 
Warning 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
e.  
If an institution continues its 
business during a period for 
which its business activities 
are suspended 
Article 37 (1) 
5 of the Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
173 
 
4. 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions on Institutions Conducting Non-Clinical Studies 
Violation 
Relevant 
Provisions 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions 
1st Violation 2nd Violation 3rd Violation 4th Violation 
or More 
a.  If an institution obtained 
designation by fraud or other 
improper means 
Article 37 (1) 
1 of the Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
 
b.  If an institution prepares or 
issues a falsified non-clinical 
study report intentionally or by 
gross negligence 
Article 37 (1) 
2 of the Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
Revocation of 
designation 
c.  If an institution fails to meet 
any of the requirements for 
designation under Article 10-2 
(2) of the Act 
Article 37 (1) 
3 of the Act 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
 
d.  If an institution fails to 
comply with any of the 
matters to be observed under 
Article 10-2 (3) of the Act 
Article 37 (1) 
4 of the Act 
 
 
 
 
1)  In case of failure to prepare a 
non-clinical study protocol or 
to conduct a non-clinical study 
according to the protocol in 
violation of Article 24-3 (1) 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
Revocation of 
designation 
2)  In case of failure to conduct 
inspection and audit to secure 
the reliability of a non-clinical 
study by a person with no 
interest in the trial in violation 
of Article 24-3 (2) 
 
Warning 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3)  In case of failure to comply 
with the good laboratory 
practices (GLP) the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety 
determined and notified in 
violation of Article 24-3 (3) 
 
Warning 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
4)  In case of failure to keep data 
and records related to a non-
clinical study in violation of 
Article 24-3 (4) 
 
Warning 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
e.  If an institution continues its 
business during a period for 
which its business activities are 
suspended 
Article 37 (1) 
5 of the Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
174 
 
5. 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions on Institutions Offering Education 
Violation 
Relevant 
Provisions 
Standards for Administrative Dispositions 
1st Violation 2nd Violation 3rd Violation 4th Violation 
or More 
a.  If an institution obtained 
designation by fraud or other 
improper means 
Article 37 (1) 
1 of the Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
 
b.  If an institution prepares or 
issues a falsified certificate of 
the completion of education or 
prepares or reports such fact 
intentionally or by gross 
negligence 
Article 37 (1) 
2 of the Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
 
c.  If an institution fails to meet 
any of the requirements for 
designation under Article 6-2 
(5) of the Act 
Article 37 (1) 
3 of the Act 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
d.  If an institution fails to 
comply with any of the matters 
to be observed under Article 6-
2 (6) of the Act 
Article 37 (1) 
4 of the Act 
 
 
 
 
1)  In case of failure to submit an 
education plan and obtain 
approval therefor in violation 
of Article 15 (1) 1 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
Revocation of 
designation 
2)  In case of failure to provide 
education according to the 
annual education plan in 
violation of Article 15 (1) 2 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
Revocation of 
designation 
3)  In case of failure to develop 
educational materials and 
provide them to educatees in 
violation of Article 15 (1) 3 
 
Warning 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
4)  In case of failure to issue a 
certificate of completion with a 
person who completes the 
education in violation of 
Article 15 (1) 4 or to record 
and maintain matters related to 
the education 
 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
Revocation of 
designation 
5)  In case of failure to submit 
records related to the provision 
of education in violation of 
Article 15 (1) 5 
 
Warning 
1-month 
suspension of 
the business 
3-month 
suspension of 
the business 
6-month 
suspension of 
the business 
e.  If an institution continues its 
business during a period for 
which its business activities are 
suspended 
Article 37 (1) 
5 of the Act 
Revocation of 
designation 
 
 
 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
175 
 
■ 
ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT [Annex 10]  
<Amended on Jul. 24, 2025> 
Fees (Related to Article 65 (1)) 
Description 
e-Government 
Visit/Mail 
1.  Application for manufacturing/import business license 
144,000 KRW 
160,000 KRW 
2.  Application for change in manufacturing/importing business 
license 
 
 
a.  
Change of representative (in cases of 
transfer/acquisition/inheritance) 
81,000 KRW 
90,000 KRW 
b.  Change of location 
45,000 KRW 
50,000 KRW 
c.  
Changes of other licensed matters 
27,000 KRW 
30,000 KRW 
3.  Application for manufacturing/import approval (newly 
developed medical devices are excluded) 
 
 
a.  
When the review of technical documentation and 
clinical trial data is required 
1,495,000 KRW 
1,662,000 KRW 
b.  When the review of technical documentation is required 
719,000 KRW 
799,000 KRW 
c.  
Other cases 
158,000 KRW 
176,000 KRW 
3-2.  Application for manufacturing/import approval (for newly 
developed medical devices) 
 
 
a.  
Approval for manufacturing/import (including the 
review of technical documentation, etc.) 
98,430,000 KRW 
98,430,000 KRW 
b.  The review of technical documentation, etc. 
 
 
1)  The review of technical documentation 
55,240,000 KRW 
55,240,000 KRW 
2)  The review of clinical trial data 
39,170,000 KRW 
39,170,000 KRW 
c.  
Approval for manufacturing/import (do not include the 
review of technical documentation, etc.) 
4,020,000 KRW 
4,020,000 KRW 
3-3.  Application for renewal of manufacturing/import approval 
500,000 KRW 
520,000 KRW 
4.  Application for manufacturing/import certification 
130,000 KRW 
145,000 KRW 
4-2.  Application for renewal of manufacturing/import certification 
430,000 KRW 
450,000 KRW 
5.  Notification of manufacturing/import 
85,000 KRW 
96,000 KRW 
5-2.  Application for renewal of manufacturing/import notification 
100,000 KRW 
100,000 KRW 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
176 
 
6.  Application for review of technical documentation, etc. 
 
 
a.  
The review of technical documentation and clinical trial 
data 
1,338,000 KRW 
1,488,000 KRW 
b.  The review of technical documentation 
561,000 KRW 
624,000 KRW 
c.  
The review of change in technical documentation and 
clinical trial data 
888,000 KRW 
987,000 KRW 
d.  The review of change in technical documentation 
430,000 KRW 
478,000 KRW 
7.  Application for review of post-marketing surveillance results 
90,000 KRW 
100,000 KRW 
8.  Application for change in manufacturing/import approval 
 
 
a.  
When the review of technical documentation and 
clinical trial data is required 
1,009,000 KRW 
1,122,000 KRW 
b.  When the review of technical documentation is required 
551,000 KRW 
612,000 KRW 
c.  
Other cases 
121,000 KRW 
135,000 KRW 
9.  Application for change in manufacturing/import certification 
82,000 KRW 
93,000 KRW 
10.  Notification of manufacturing/import changes 
39,000 KRW 
43,000 KRW 
11.  Notification of repair business 
45,000 KRW 
50,000 KRW 
12.  Notification of repair business changes 
 
 
a.  
Change of representative (in cases of 
transfer/acquisition/inheritance) 
32,000 KRW 
36,000 KRW 
b.  Change of location 
27,000 KRW 
30,000 KRW 
c.  
Changes of other notification matters 
22,000 KRW 
25,000 KRW 
13.  Notification of sales or lease business 
9,000 KRW 
10,000 KRW 
14.  Notification of sales or lease business changes 
4,000 KRW 
5,000 KRW 
15.  Issuance of an English-language certificate 
21,000 KRW 
24,000 KRW 
16.  Reissuance of approval and certification certificates 
2,100 KRW 
2,400 KRW 
17.  Deleted <Jun. 24, 2021> 
 
 
18.  Application for preliminary review of technical 
documentation, etc. (newly developed medical devices are 
excluded) 
 
 
a.  
The preliminary review of technical documentation 
524,000 KRW 
583,000 KRW 

Enforcement Rule of the Medical Devices Act 
 
177 
 
 
 
b.  The preliminary review of technical documentation and 
clinical trial data (including the protocol) 
1,097,000 KRW 
1,219,000 KRW 
19.  Application for preliminary review of technical 
documentation, etc. (for newly developed medical devices) 
 
 
a.  
The preliminary review of technical documentation 
55,240,000 KRW 
55,240,000 KRW 
b.  The preliminary review of clinical trial data (including 
the protocol) 
39,170,000 KRW 
39,170,000 KRW 
20.  Notification of medical device sales representatives 
- 
10,000 KRW 
20-2. Notification of medical device sales representative changes 
- 
5,000 KRW 
Note:  Only when the preliminary review of a newly developed medical device is deemed appropriate, the 
applicant for manufacturing approval or marketing authorization of the newly developed medical 
device may pay an amount equal to the manufacturing/import approval application fee under 
subparagraph 3-2 minus the preliminary review application fee under subparagraph 19. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
178 
 
 
Standards of Good Manufacturing Practice 
(GMP) for Medical Devices 
[Enforced on December 9, 2025]  
[Ministry of Food and Drug Safety Notice No. 2025-80; December 9, 2025; Partially Amended] 
Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (Medical Device Management Division) 
 
Article 1 (Purpose) The purpose of this GMP is to prescribe the detailed requirements to be 
observed when manufacturing or importing in medical devices (including medical devices for 
investigational use) and matters necessary for the designation procedures and management methods 
for the audit organization and training organizations for quality managers pursuant to Articles 6, 6-
2, 10, 12, 13, 15, 28, and 45 of the Medical Device Act; Articles 8, 14, 15, 24, 26, 27, 31, 33, 34, 
and 48, Annex 2, and Annex 4 of the Enforcement Rule of the Medical Device Act; Article 24 of the 
Promotion of the Medical Device Industry and Support for Innovative Medical Devices; and Article 
15 of the Regulations on the Support and Management of Innovative Medical Devices. 
 
Article 2 (Definitions) The terms used in this GMP shall have the meanings defined in Annex 1. 
 
Article 3 (Scope of Application) (1) The scope of this GMP shall be as follows: 
1.  A person who intends to obtain approval or certification for manufacturing or import of 
medical devices, or to submit a notification for such manufacturing or import; 
2.  A person who intends to manufacture or import medical device for investigational use. 
3.  A medical device manufacturer or importer who applies for conformity recognition and 
periodic assessment (hereinafter referred to as the “conformity recognition assessment”). 
4.  A person who has been designated, or who intends to be designated, as audit 
organization. 
5.  A person who has been designated or who intends to be designated, as training 
organizations for quality managers. 
(2)  Notwithstanding subparagraphs 1 through 3 of paragraph (1), where any of the following 
applies, this GMP shall be followed; provided, however, that conformity recognition 
assessments may be excluded. 
1.  Where medical devices are manufactured for export (hereinafter referred to as “medical 
devices for export”). 
2.  Where a person intends to manufacture or import Class I medical devices. 
3.  Where a manufacturing site manufactures medical devices by undertaking manufacturing 
processes from the legal manufacturer under a contractual relationship, as referred to in 
subparagraph 57 of Annex 1, and all of the following subparagraphs apply: 
(a)  Where the legal manufacturer is changed or added. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
179 
 
(b)  Where the same or a different manufacturer or importer holds a valid conformity 
recognition certificate under this GMP for the same product group with respect to 
the relevant manufacturing site. Provided, however, that where such conformity 
recognition certificate has been issued through document review without an on-site 
inspection, a quality management system conformity recognition certificate issued 
by an assessment organization under the Medical Device Single Audit Program in 
accordance with subparagraph 70 of Annex 1 (limited to cases where it is valid 
based on an on-site inspection; hereinafter referred to as the “MDSAP conformity 
recognition certificate”) shall be submitted. 
 
Article 4 (Classification of Conformity Recognition Assessments) (1) Conformity recognition 
under this GMP shall be conducted by classifying the assessments as follows: 
1.  The initial assessment that a manufacturing site must undergo to be recognized as 
conforming to this GMP (hereinafter referred to as the “initial assessment”); 
2.  The assessment newly required when a manufacturing site adds medical devices of 
another product group pursuant to Annex 3 (hereinafter referred to as the “additional 
assessment”); 
3.  The assessment that must be newly conducted to obtain conformity recognition due to a 
change in the location of a manufacturing site (hereinafter referred to as the “assessment 
for change”); provided, however, that changes to storage facilities or test laboratories are 
excluded. 
(2)  Each manufacturing site shall undergo one periodic assessment every three years for each 
product group listed in Annex 3, pursuant to subparagraph 2 (e) 2) of Annex 2 and 
subparagraph 3 (b) of Annex 4 of the Enforcement Rule of the Medical Device Act (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Enforcement Rule”), and paragraph (1) 2 (d) and (e) of Article 15 of the 
Regulations on the Support and Management of Innovative Medical Devices. 
(3)  Notwithstanding Article 3 (2) and Article 4 (2), a manufacturing site may be exempted from 
periodic assessments when it has obtained conformity recognition for the following medical 
devices: 
1.  Medical device for export; 
2.  Class I medical device: 
3.  Medical device for investigational use 
4.  Drugs or quasi-drugs combined with, or integrally incorporated into combination medical 
devices 
 
Article 5 (Criteria for Conformity Recognition Assessments) (1) The criteria for conformity 
recognition assessments pursuant to Annex 2 and Annex 4 of the Enforcement Rule and Article 15 
of the Regulations on the Support and Management of Innovative Medical Devices shall be as 
specified in Annex 2. Provided, however, that in cases of combined assessments under 
subparagraph 72 of Annex 1, the assessment criteria and assessment tables prescribed in the detailed 
operating guidelines under Article 14 (2) shall apply. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
180 
 
(2)  Notwithstanding paragraph (1), only part of Annex 2 may be applied in the following cases of 
each subparagraph: 
1.  For a person who intends to manufacture or import medical devices for investigational 
use, Sections 7.1, 7.3, 7.4.3, 7.5, 7.6, 8.2.6, and 8.3 shall be applied. 
2.  For an assessment for change under Article 4 (1) 3, Sections 4.1, 4.2, 6.1, 6.3, 6.4, 7.5, 
7.6, 8.2.2, 8.2.3, 8.2.6, 8.3, and 8.5 shall be applied. 
3.  Notwithstanding Article 3 (2), where conformity recognition assessments under this GMP 
are sought for Class I medical devices, Sections 4.1, 4.2, 5.5, 6.4, 7.1, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 8.2.1, 
8.2.2, 8.2.3, 8.2.6, 8.3, and 8.5 shall be applied. 
 
Article 6 (Methods of Conformity Recognition Assessments) (1) Conformity recognition 
assessments pursuant to subparagraph 2 (e) and (f) of Annex 2 and subparagraph 3 of Annex 4 of 
the Enforcement Rule, and Article 15 of the Regulations on the Support and Management of 
Innovative Medical Devices shall be conducted jointly by the Commissioner of the Regional Office 
of Food and Drug Safety (hereinafter referred to as the “Commissioner of Regional Office”) and the 
head of the audit organization through document review and on-site inspection for each product 
group of the manufacturing site. Where the manufacturing process is carried out under an 
outsourcing arrangement between the legal manufacturer and the manufacturer (hereinafter referred 
to as the “legal manufacturer-manufacturer”), document review and on-site inspection may also be 
conducted separately for each of them. In such cases, for manufacturing sites of combination 
medical devices (including cases of legal manufacturer–manufacturer), separate document review 
and on-site inspection may be conducted. In such cases, on-site inspections shall not be limited to 
the core products under Article 7 (2). 
(2)  Notwithstanding paragraph (1), pursuant to the proviso to subparagraph 2 (f) 2) of Annex 2 of 
the Enforcement Rule and Article 15 of the Regulations on the Support and Management of 
Innovative Medical Devices, only document review shall be conducted in the following 
subparagraphs: 
1.  Where an additional assessment is conducted under Article 4 (1) 2; 
2.  Where an assessment for change is conducted based on the submission of data under 
Article 7 (1) 2 (b) for a manufacturing site whose location has been changed pursuant to 
Article 4 (1) 3; 
3.  Where another medical device manufacturer or importer has undergone document review 
and on-site inspection for the manufacturing site and holds a valid conformity recognition 
certificate; 
4.  Where a person has two or more manufacturing sites subject to periodic assessments 
under Article 4 (2), remaining manufacturing sites other than those selected for on-site 
inspection; 
5.  Where another manufacturer or importer of in vitro diagnostic medical devices under the 
Act on In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices has undergone document review and on-site 
inspection for the manufacturing site under the Good Manufacturing Practice for In Vitro 
Diagnostic Medical Devices and holds a valid conformity recognition certificate; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
181 
 
6.  Where a manufacturer holds MDSAP certificate; 
7.  Where periodic assessments are conducted for Excellent Manufacturing Sites under 
subparagraph 71 of Annex 1. 
(3)  Notwithstanding paragraph (2), an on-site inspection shall be conducted in any of the 
following cases: 
1.  Deleted 
2.  Where a manufacturing site is deemed to present potential risks; 
3.  Where a manufacturer or importer is unable to submit the data required under Article 7 
(1) 2 for reasons such as trade secrets, and requests an on-site inspection; 
4.  Where a manufacturer holds an MDSAP conformity recognition certificate, in any of the 
following cases: 
(a)  A manufacturing site subjects to periodic assessments under Article 4 (2); 
(b)  A manufacturing site that the Minister of Food and Drug Safety recognizes as likely 
to affect public health, including cases where significant nonconformities are 
identified in quality management system conformity recognition assessments under 
the Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP); 
(c)  A manufacturing site that produces combination medical devices. 
(d)  A manufacturing site that produces medical devices containing human-derived 
components or using human-derived tissues. 
(4)  Notwithstanding Article 4, a new initial assessment shall be required in any of the following 
cases: 
1.  Where the expiration date of the conformity recognition certificate held by a 
manufacturing site for export, Class I devices, or medical devices for investigational use 
has expired, and reapplication for conformity recognition is made; 
2.  Where a manufacturing site holding conformity recognition for medical devices for 
export intends to manufacture products for domestic sale; 
3.  Where the legal manufacturer in a legal manufacturer–manufacturer relationship that has 
undergone conformity recognition assessments is changed or removed; 
4.  Where the location of a manufacturing site that has obtained conformity recognition for 
medical devices for investigational use pursuant to Article 5 (2) 1 is changed, or where 
medical devices for investigational use belonging to a different product group are added, 
or where such devices are intended to be manufactured or imported for the purpose of 
sale; 
5.  Where a manufacturing site that has obtained conformity recognition for Class I medical 
devices pursuant to Article 5 (2) 3 intends to manufacture or import Class II, Class III, or 
Class IV medical devices. 
(5)  The entities for conducting conformity recognition assessments under paragraphs (1) through 
(4) shall be as provided in Annex 4. 
(6)  Where an on-site inspection cannot be conducted at a manufacturing site that is subject to such 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
182 
 
inspection due to circumstances such as war, infectious disease, natural disasters, or other 
similar events, the on-site inspection may be temporarily suspended and only a document 
review shall be conducted. 
(7)  Manufacturers or importers for whom only document review was conducted under paragraph 
(6) shall submit test reports conforming to their self-quality control test specifications for each 
manufacturing or import unit to the Commissioner of Regional Office at each instance of 
manufacture or import. 
 
Article 7 (Application for Conformity Recognition Assessments) (1) A person who falls under 
any subparagraph of Article 3 (1) 1 through 3 and seeks to undergo conformity recognition 
assessments under this GMP shall submit an application in Form 1, along with the following 
documents, to the head of the audit organization. In this case, the manufacturing site shall have 
quality control records for at least one manufacturing unit, and the preferred date for the on-site 
inspection shall be finalized and submitted at least 20 days before the inspection start date. 
1.  A copy of the manufacturing (import) business license for medical devices or a copy of 
the conditional manufacturing (import) business license for medical devices (excluding 
cases where no such initial assessment or license for manufacturing (importing) medical 
devices (conditional) for investigational use is held). 
2.  The following documents corresponding to each item: 
(a)  An overview of the manufacturing site (including the name of the site and the 
address of each facility; if there are multiple sites, all site names must be included), 
organizational chart, number of employees, and medical devices manufactured; 
(b)  A copy of the quality management system conformity certificate issued by the 
regulatory authority or an agency delegated by the regulatory authority (only 
applicable to Article 6 (2) and Article 6 (6)) and on-site inspection results (only 
applicable to Article 6 (2) 2 and Article 6 (6), including any follow-up actions taken 
in response to the inspection results); 
(c)  A description of facility conditions for each manufacturing site subject to 
assessment [including floor plans of work areas, test laboratories, and storage 
facilities, and lists of facilities and equipment], cleanroom procedures (if 
applicable), and procedures for monitoring and measurement equipment that 
specify monitoring cycles; 
(d)  The quality manual of the manufacturing site (including the quality policy); 
(e)  Procedures and test reports related to finished product testing (e.g., final release 
inspection) for the core product of the manufacturing site (including documentation 
demonstrating sterilization for sterile products); 
(f)  Purchasing and outsourcing procedures for the core product of the manufacturing 
site, names of major suppliers (including contracted suppliers), and scope of work; 
(g)  Device Master Records of the core product for the manufacturing site (including 
descriptions of specific manufacturing processes such as sterilization or software, 
as applicable), and procedures for validation of sterilization, where applicable; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
183 
 
(h)  Checklist for Annex 2 criteria of the manufacturing site; 
(i)  Declaration of conformity to Annex 2 criteria of the manufacturing site; 
(j)  Deleted 
3.  Notwithstanding subparagraph 2, when undergoing assessment using the conformity 
recognition results obtained under the Medical Device Single Audit Program, the 
documents in any of the following items, excluding the materials corresponding to 
subparagraph 2, shall be submitted: 
(a)  A copy of the MDSAP conformity recognition certificate and the accompanying 
assessment results (including, where nonconformities were identified, the 
nonconformity report issued by the audit organization and the corrective and 
preventive action plan or results submitted by the manufacturing site that have been 
confirmed by the organization as compliant). 
(b)  Device Master Records for the product belonging to the highest classification level 
within each product group of the manufacturing site.  Provided, however, that for 
such an assessment for change, the Device Master Record shall be that of the 
product which belongs to the highest classification level within the product group 
of the manufacturing site and has the highest manufacturing or import volume. 
(c)  The following documents demonstrating that the quality management system 
complies with the requirements prescribed in statutes related to medical devices: 
1)  Quality manual of the manufacturing site; 
2)  Procedures related to record management; 
3)  Procedures that define the scope of responsibilities of the quality manager; 
4)  Procedures for managing medical devices subject to traceability (where 
applicable); 
5)  Procedures for adverse event reporting and advisory notices. 
(d)  Documents demonstrating the correlation between the products covered by the 
MDSAP conformity recognition certificate and the products subject to conformity 
recognition assessments. 
4.  Notwithstanding subparagraph 2, where a manufacturing site qualifies as a Excellent 
Manufacturing Site and undergoes a periodic assessment, the following documents shall 
be submitted in lieu of the documents required under subparagraph 2: 
(a)  Documentation confirming that the manufacturing site falls under Annex 1, 
subparagraph 71 (d); 
(b)  The Device Master Record for the core product that belongs to the highest 
classification level within each product group of the manufacturing site and has the 
highest manufacturing or import volume; 
(c)  The following documents demonstrating the appropriateness of quality control over 
the past three years: 
1)  Procedures and test reports related to finished product testing (e.g., final 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
184 
 
release inspection) for the core product (including sterilization validation 
procedures and test reports for sterile products); 
2)  Documents on corrective and preventive actions taken in the last three years 
in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex 2; 
3)  Checklist under Annex 2 and declaration of conformity. 
(2)  The submission documents for the core product falling under Article 7 (1) 2 (e), (f), (g), and (j) 
shall be the documents for the products corresponding to each of the following subparagraphs. 
1.  Where two or more products are submitted, the product belonging to the highest 
classification level within each product group of the manufacturing site shall be selected; 
2.  Notwithstanding subparagraph 1, in the case of a periodic assessment under Article 4 (2), 
the product belonging to the highest classification level of the manufacturing site and 
having the highest manufacturing or import volume among the products under the 
assessment shall be selected; 
3.  Notwithstanding subparagraph 1, in the case of an assessment for change under Article 4 
(3), the product belonging to the highest classification level within each product group of 
the manufacturing site and having the highest manufacturing or import volume shall be 
selected. 
(3)  A medical device manufacturer and importer required to undergo a periodic assessment under 
Article 4 (2) shall apply for the periodic assessment to the head of the audit organization by 
submitting an application in Form 1, accompanied by the documents under Article 7 (1) 1 and 
2, no later than three months before the expiration date stated on the conformity recognition 
certificate. In such cases, the desired on-site inspection date shall be fixed and applied for no 
later than 20 days before the expiration date stated on the conformity recognition certificate, 
and if the desired on-site inspection date is not confirmed at the time of application 
submission, the applicant shall submit the desired date in writing no later than 20 days before 
the start date of the requested on-site inspection. 
(4)  Where a medical device manufacturer and importer has multiple manufacturing sites subject to 
periodic assessment under paragraph (3), a consolidated application for periodic assessment 
may be submitted. Provided, however, that manufacturing sites that received the conformity 
recognition certificate using the Medical Device Single Audit Program or those designated as 
Excellent Manufacturing Sites shall be excluded from periodic assessment consolidated 
applications. 
(5)  A person who intends to submit a consolidated periodic assessment application under 
paragraph (4) shall prepare the documents required under paragraph (3) and the manufacturing 
site summary sheet in Form 1, and submit them to the head of the audit organization. 
(6)  Where Article 6 (2) 3 applies because another manufacturer or importer holds a valid 
conformity recognition certificate for the relevant manufacturing site under this GMP, only the 
following documents among those required under paragraph (1) may be submitted along with 
the application in Form 1: 
1.  A copy of the manufacturing (import) business license for medical devices or a copy of 
the conditional manufacturing (import) business license for medical devices (excluding 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
185 
 
cases where no such initial assessment or license for manufacturing (importing) medical 
devices (conditional) for investigational use is held); 
2.  The documents under Article 7 (1) 2 (g) (excluding sterilization validation procedures) 
and (j); 
3.  The document of the manufacturing site demonstrating that the products are 
manufactured under the same system at the same manufacturing site. 
(7)  When any of the following circumstances occurs, an Excellent Manufacturing Site under 
Annex 1, subparagraph 71, or a manufacturer or importer that has been issued a conformity 
recognition certificate under Article 6 (6) shall submit an application in Form 1 to the head of 
the audit organization within 10 days from the date of occurrence. In such cases, the applicant 
may omit the supporting documents for Form 1. 
1.  Where an Excellent Manufacturing Site no longer satisfies any of the criteria listed in 
Annex 1, subparagraph 71; 
2.  Where the conditions at the location or region of a manufacturing site for which an on-
site inspection was deferred under Article 6 (6) have ended. 
(8)  Where a person required to apply for a periodic assessment fails to do so at least three months 
before the expiration date under paragraph (3), the head of the audit organization shall report 
the name of the company, its representative, and other relevant information to the 
Commissioner of Regional Office. 
(9)  For manufacturing sites subject to on-site inspection under Article 6 (5), the documents listed 
in Article 7 (1) 2 (b), (h), and (j) may be omitted. 
(10)  Where a person who intends to undergo conformity recognition assessments pursuant to 
paragraph (1) may apply for a combined assessment under subparagraph 72 of Annex 1 where 
the person also intends to undergo a quality management system conformity recognition 
assessment under the Medical Device Single Audit Program. 
(11)  Costs and other matters related to conformity recognition assessments shall be governed by 
Annex 2 of the Enforcement Rule. 
(12)  Where a person who intends to undergo conformity recognition assessments pursuant to 
paragraph (1) may apply to the head of the audit organization for a priority assessment 
(meaning an assessment conducted in priority over other applications for conformity 
recognition assessments) with respect to a manufacturing site that manufactures medical 
devices falling under any of the following subparagraphs: In such cases, documents 
demonstrating that the medical devices fall under any of the following subparagraphs shall be 
submitted. 
1.  Medical devices subject to reporting under Article 2 of the Notice on the Scope of 
Medical Devices Subject to Production/Import Suspension Reporting and Reporting 
Methods, and medical devices deemed by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety to pose a 
substantial risk of suspension of production or importation pursuant to Article 3 (6) 
thereof. 
2.  Newly developed medical devices pursuant to Article 8 (1) 1 of the Medical Device Act. 
3.  Medical devices designated as innovative medical devices pursuant to Article 21 of the 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
186 
 
Promotion of the Medical Device Industry and Support for Innovative Medical Devices 
(excluding cases where such designation has been revoked). 
4.  Medical devices designed to display labeling or provide information by means of braille, 
audio, or other methods for persons with visual or hearing impairments pursuant to 
Article 23 (1) (a) and (b) of the Medical Device Act. 
 
Article 8 (Procedures for Conformity Recognition Assessments) (1) Upon receiving an 
application for conformity recognition and related assessments under Article 7, the head of the audit 
organization shall, in accordance with the following subparagraphs, report the receipt and request 
confirmation of whether an on-site inspection is required under Article 6 (3) from the Commissioner 
of Regional Office. Provided, however, that where the assessment entity is single-agency under 
Article 6 (5) and Annex 4, and Article 6 (6) does not apply, reporting the receipt to the 
Commissioner of Regional Office may be omitted. 
1.  The head shall verify within five days whether all required documents under Article 7 (1) 
through (7) have been submitted, and if complete, shall report and request within seven 
days after receipt. 
2.  If, as a result of confirming whether the supporting documents under subparagraph 1 
have been submitted, any deficiency such as missing supporting documents is identified, 
the applicant shall be requested to supplement them by setting a supplementation 
deadline for the submission of such documents in accordance with the Administrative 
Procedures Act. 
3.  Notwithstanding subparagraph 1, where an application additionally includes a confirmed 
desired on-site inspection date, the report and request shall be made no later than the day 
following the receipt of the application. 
(2)  Within ten days after receiving the report and request under paragraph (1), the Commissioner 
of Regional Office shall determine the need for on-site inspection under Article 6 (3), the 
assessment entity under Article 6 (5), and the assessment method, and shall notify the head of 
the audit organization, who shall in turn notify the applicant. 
(3)  The head of the audit organization shall notify the applicant in writing of the conformity 
recognition assessment results under Article 6 within 30 days from the date the application for 
conformity recognition was received. Provided, however, that if an on-site inspection is 
required under paragraph (2), the period from the date of notification to the applicant until the 
start of the on-site inspection under this paragraph shall not be included in the processing 
period. 
(4)  Where an on-site inspection is required under paragraph (2), the head of the audit organization 
shall conduct the on-site inspection in accordance with the following subparagraphs: 
1.  The assessment entity determined under paragraph (2) shall conduct the on-site 
inspection on the notified inspection date, and the head of the audit organization shall 
notify the applicant in writing of the results within seven days from the end of the 
inspection visit or within the processing period under paragraph (3). Provided, however, 
that if the results of the on-site inspection are determined to be nonconforming, the 
Commissioner of Regional Office shall be notified immediately. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
187 
 
2.  If an on-site inspection under subparagraph 1 cannot be conducted due to war, epidemics, 
natural disasters, or other similar circumstances during the inspection period, or if the 
inspection cannot proceed normally due to delayed or refused submission of inspection 
documents, the on-site inspection may be suspended. In such cases, the applicant shall be 
immediately notified in writing of the reasons for the suspension, and the Commissioner 
of Regional Office shall be notified accordingly. 
3.  When the reason for suspension under subparagraph 2 is confirmed to be resolved, the 
on-site inspection may resume, and the results shall be notified to the applicant in writing 
within seven days from the completion date of the resumed inspection or within the 
processing period under paragraph (3). 
(5)  Where the head of the audit organization is unable to notify the applicant of the conformity 
recognition assessment results within the processing period under paragraphs (3) and (4) due to 
unavoidable reasons such as natural disasters, the head shall notify the applicant in advance of 
the delay. 
(6)  Where the results of the conformity recognition assessments fall under Annex 2, Section 9.4 
(2) (a) 2, the head of the audit organization shall take the actions in any of the following 
subparagraphs: 
1.  Require the applicant to submit corrective documentation and a corrective action plan, 
and evaluate conformity within 15 days from the end of the conformity recognition 
assessment. 
2.  Review the documents submitted under subparagraph 1 and notify the applicant in 
writing of the results. 
3.  If the applicant fails to submit the required documents within 15 days or the submitted 
documents are not adequate, supplementary measures shall be taken in accordance with 
paragraph (7). 
4.  If the applicant fails to submit the implementation results of corrective actions under 
subparagraph 1 within three months or the submitted results are inadequate, the head of 
the audit organization shall immediately report to the Commissioner of Regional Office 
and notify the applicant in writing. 
(7)  Where matters requiring supplementation are identified, the head of the audit organization 
shall take the following actions with respect to the results of the conformity recognition 
assessment: 
1.  Supplementation procedures and deadlines shall be required in accordance with the Civil 
Petitions Treatment Act, and the assessment entity under paragraph (2) shall review the 
results submitted by the applicant and evaluate conformity. 
2.  If the applicant fails to submit the required documents within the deadline, the 
assessment entity shall determine as nonconforming. 
3.  Where an application is determined nonconforming under subparagraph 2, the fact shall 
be reported immediately to the Commissioner of Regional Office, and the applicant shall 
be notified in writing. 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
188 
 
(8)  The head of the audit organization shall prepare a result report in Form 3 and submit it to the 
Commissioner of Regional Office in accordance with the following subparagraphs. Provided, 
however, that submission may be omitted where the assessment entity is single-agency under 
Article 6 (5) and Annex 4, and the case does not fall under Article 6 (6). 
1.  Assessment results under paragraph (3) shall be submitted within the processing period 
prescribed in paragraph (3). 
2.  Assessment results under paragraph (4) 1 shall be submitted within seven days from the 
end of the on-site inspection. 
3.  Where the on-site inspection is resumed pursuant to paragraph (4) 3, the results shall be 
submitted within seven days from the end of the resumed inspection visit or within the 
processing period under paragraph (3). 
(9)  Where the results of conformity recognition assessments under Article 6 are conforming, the 
head of the audit organization shall issue the Conformity Recognition Certificate under the 
Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices (Form 2 or Form 2-2, pursuant to Annex 5) 
(hereinafter referred to as the “conformity recognition certificate”) to the applicant. Provided, 
however, that the temporary certificate may be issued in any case of the following 
subparagraphs: 
1.  Where the conformity recognition assessment results fall under Annex 2, 9.4 (2) (a) 2, a 
conditional conformity recognition certificate may be issued on the condition that 
corrective actions are implemented within three months; 
2.  Where document review is deemed to conform under Article 6 (6), a temporary 
conformity recognition certificate may be issued. 
(10) Where an applicant objects to the assessment results under Article 6, the applicant may file an 
objection with the head of the relevant audit organization in accordance with the Civil Petitions 
Treatment Act. 
(11) When an objection is filed under paragraph (9), the head of the audit organization shall report 
both the content of the objection and the handling results to the head of the Commissioner of 
Regional Office. 
(12) Where multiple manufacturing sites are submitted as a consolidated periodic assessment 
application under Article 7 (4), the Commissioner of Regional Office and the head of the audit 
organization shall conduct an on-site inspection for one manufacturing site, selected by 
comprehensively considering the following criteria: 
1.  A manufacturing site that produces the product of the highest class; 
2.  A manufacturing site with high domestic production or import volume; 
3.  A manufacturing site that has not previously undergone an on-site inspection. 
(13) For manufacturing sites that apply for conformity recognition assessments under Article 7 (7), 
the head of the audit organization shall conduct an on-site inspection within 90 days from the 
date of application. 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
189 
 
Article 9 (Expiration Date of the Conformity Recognition Certificate) (1) The expiration date of 
a conformity recognition certificate issued following an initial assessment shall be three years from 
the date of issuance. 
(2)  When conformity recognition is granted following an additional assessment or an assessment 
for change, the existing expiration date shall remain unaffected. 
(3)  The expiration date of a conformity recognition certificate issued following a periodic 
assessment shall be three years from the day after the expiration date of the previous 
certificate. Provided, however, that where the certificate is issued after the previous expiration 
date, or where the periodic assessment was submitted as a consolidated application, the 
expiration date shall be three years from the issuance date. 
(4)  Where conformity recognition assessments have been conducted pursuant to Article 6 (2) 3, 
the expiration date for the relevant manufacturing site shall be set to match the expiration date 
of the manufacturer or importer that previously underwent conformity recognition 
assessments. 
(5)  Where conformity recognition assessments have been conducted pursuant to Article 6 (2) 5, 
the expiration date for the relevant manufacturing site shall be set to match the expiration date 
of the in vitro diagnostic medical device manufacturer or importer that previously underwent 
conformity recognition assessments. 
(6)  Where conformity recognition assessments have been conducted using the Medical Device 
Single Audit Program pursuant to Article 6 (2) 6, the expiration date for the relevant 
manufacturing site shall be set to match the expiration date of the MDSAP conformity 
recognition certificate. 
(7)  Where conformity recognition assessments have been conducted pursuant to Article 7 (10), 
notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (3), the expiration date of the conformity recognition 
certificate may, at the applicant’s request, be set at up to three years. 
(8)  Where conformity recognition assessments have been conducted only for the legal 
manufacturer pursuant to Article 3 (2) 3, the expiration date for the relevant legal 
manufacturer–manufacturer shall be set to match the expiration date of the conformity 
recognition certificate previously issued for the same product group. Provided, however, that 
where only document review has been conducted without an on-site inspection pursuant to the 
proviso to Article 3 (2) 3 (b), the expiration date shall be set to match the expiration date of the 
MDSAP conformity recognition certificate. 
 
Article 10 (Reissuance of the Conformity Recognition Certificate) (1) A manufacturer or 
importer who has been issued a conformity recognition certificate under Article 8 (9) may apply to 
the audit organization that issued the certificate for reissuance if the certificate is lost or otherwise 
needs to be reissued. 
(2)  Upon receiving an application for reissuance under paragraph (1), the head of the audit 
organization shall reissue the conformity recognition certificate in accordance with Annex 5. 
(3)  A medical device manufacturer or importer may either obtain reissuance of the conformity 
recognition certificate or record the changes in any of the following subparagraphs on the 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
190 
 
reverse side of the certificate for control purposes: 
1.  Change in the name of the place of manufacturing or importing business; 
2.  Change in the location of the manufacturing site (limited to changes under the proviso of 
Article 4 (1) 3); 
3.  Change in the location of an importing business; 
4.  Change in the trade name of the legal manufacturer or the manufacturer; 
5.  Change in the location of the legal manufacturer or the manufacturer (limited to changes 
under the proviso to Article 4 (1) 3). 
(4)  Where a medical device manufacturer or importer records changes on the reverse side of the 
conformity recognition certificate under paragraph (3), the date and details of the approval of 
change shall also be recorded. 
(5)  A manufacturer or importer who has been issued a conformity recognition certificate under 
Article 8 (9) 1 may apply to the issuing audit organization for replacement of the certificate 
only after corrective actions have been completed, and may receive a replacement certificate 
accordingly. 
 
Article 10-2 (Return of the Conformity Recognition Certificate) (1) A manufacturer or importer 
who has been issued a conformity recognition certificate under Article 8 (9) may return the 
certificate to the issuing audit organization, specifying the relevant reasons in detail, when any of 
the following circumstances occurs: 
1.  Where the manufacturing business license or import business license is revoked; 
2.  Where the manufacturing approval, import approval, manufacturing certification, or 
import certification is revoked; 
3.  Where any other reasons exist requiring the manufacturer or importer to return the 
conformity recognition certificate. 
(2)  In accordance with paragraph (1), the head of an audit organization who has received the 
return of the conformity recognition certificate shall, immediately upon receipt of the returned 
conformity recognition certificate, report the fact of its return to the Commissioner of Regional 
Office. 
 
Article 11 (Marking for Conformity Recognition Assessments) A medical device manufacturer 
and importer may affix the conformity recognition marking, as specified in Annex 6, to medical 
devices that belong to the same product group as the manufacturing site which has undergone 
conformity recognition assessments. 
 
Article 12 (Duties of the Audit Organization) The duties of the head of the audit organization 
shall be any of following subparagraphs: 
1.  Conducting conformity recognition assessments under the Good Manufacturing Practice 
for Medical Devices; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
191 
 
2.  Issuing conformity recognition certificates. 
3.  Compiling statistics and providing administrative support related to conformity 
recognition assessments. 
4.  Other matters necessary for conformity recognition assessments. 
 
Article 13 (Assessment for Designation of an Audit Organization) (1) Where the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety receives an application for designation as an audit organization pursuant to 
Article 48 (1) of the Enforcement Rule, the Minister shall conduct a document review and an on-
site evaluation of the submitted materials, including the application. 
(2)  The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall establish a plan for the on-site evaluation under 
paragraph (1) and notify the applicant of the following matters at least seven days prior to the 
conduct of the on-site evaluation: 
1.  The site and schedule of the on-site evaluation 
2.  The composition of the on-site evaluation team; 
3.  Matters requiring cooperation in connection with the on-site evaluation. 
(3)  The assessment criteria for designation as an audit organization pursuant to paragraph (1) shall 
be as specified in Annex 7. 
 
Article 14 (Standards for Management and Operation of an Audit Organization) (1) The head 
of an audit organization shall establish detailed operating guidelines necessary for conducting 
conformity recognition assessments. 
(2)  Where the head of an audit organization establishes or amends the detailed operating 
guidelines pursuant to paragraph (1), approval from the Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall 
be obtained. 
(3)  An auditor of an audit organization shall maintain impartiality and integrity in conducting 
conformity recognition assessments. 
(4)  An auditor of an audit organization shall not disclose to any third party, or use for purposes 
other than official duties, any information acquired in connection with conformity recognition 
assessments. 
(5)  An entity subject to conformity recognition assessments may file a request for recusal of a 
specific auditor for special reasons that make it difficult to expect a fair audit. The head of the 
audit organization may replace the auditor if the recusal application is deemed justified. 
(6)  Other standards for management and operation to be observed by an audit organization shall be 
as specified in Annex 8. 
 
Article 15 (Reporting) (1) The head of the audit organization shall submit the quarterly report on 
the results of conformity recognition assessments for medical devices (Form 4) and the detailed list 
of such assessment results (Form 5) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety and the Commissioner 
of Regional Office within 20 days after the end of each quarter. Provided, however, that where the 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
192 
 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the Commissioner of Regional Office requests separate data, 
the relevant data shall be submitted within seven days from the date of the request. 
(2)  Where there are personnel changes, such as transfers or resignations of assessors, the head of 
the audit organization shall report such changes to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
within seven days. 
 
Article 16 (Guidance and Inspection of Audit Organizations) (1) The Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety shall conduct annual guidance and inspections of audit organizations to determine whether 
conformity recognition assessments are being properly conducted and whether the organizations are 
being operated in compliance with the standards for management and operation. 
(2)  Where the Minister of Food and Drug Safety deems that there are improper conformity 
recognition assessments, issues with determinations, or problems in the performance of such 
assessments due to complaints or other reasons, the Minister may conduct guidance and 
inspections at any time. 
(3)  The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall establish detailed criteria for guidance and 
inspections to be conducted pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2). 
 
Article 17 (Application for Designation of Training Organizations for Quality Managers) (1) 
Where the Minister of Food and Drug Safety intends to additionally designate training 
organizations for quality managers, the Minister shall announce an application period during which 
institutions or organizations falling under Article 14 (1) of the Enforcement Rule may apply for 
designation as training organizations for quality managers. 
(2)  The specific criteria for the designation of a training organizations for quality managers 
pursuant to Article 14 (6) of the Enforcement Regulations shall be as per Annex 9. 
 
Article 18 (Assessment for Designation of Training Organizations for Quality Managers) (1) 
Where the Minister of Food and Drug Safety receives an application for designation as a training 
organization for quality managers pursuant to Article 17 (1), the Minister shall conduct a document 
review and an inspection of the submitted materials, including the application pursuant to Article 14 
(2) of the Enforcement Rule. 
(2)  The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall establish a plan for the inspection under paragraph 
(1) and notify the applicant of the following matters at least seven days before the inspection: 
1.  the site and schedule of the inspection; 
2.  the composition of the inspection team; 
3.  Matters requiring cooperation in connection with the inspection. 
 
Article 19 (Announcement of Designation of Training Organizations for Quality Managers) 
The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall publicly announce the training organizations for quality 
managers that comply with the Article 17. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
193 
 
 
Article 20 (Training Content) Pursuant to Article 13 (1) 4 of the Enforcement Rule, the head of a 
training organizations for quality managers shall establish a training plan to ensure that the 
curriculum includes the following training content: 
1.  Matters concerning the scope of duties of a quality manager pursuant to Article 12 of the 
Enforcement Rule; 
2.  Matters concerning safety related to the handling of hazardous substances, such as 
radiation; 
3.  Matters requiring scientific and technical training related to medical devices; 
4.  Other matters concerning the latest amendments in the laws and regulations on medical 
devices. 
 
Article 21 (Matters to Be Observed by the Head of a Training Organizations for Quality 
Managers, etc.) (1) Where the head of a training organizations for quality managers intends to 
amend the regulations on training implementation specified in Annex 9, approval from the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety shall be obtained. 
(2)  Pursuant to Article 15 (2) of the Enforcement Rule, the head of a training organization for 
quality managers shall establish a training plan that includes the matters prescribed in Article 
20 and the following: 
1.  The trainees and the expected number of participants by category; 
2.  The training venue; 
3.  Tuition fees (including supporting documentation); 
4.  Training method (by target trainee, by region, etc.); 
5.  The curriculum; 
6.  Training subjects, hours, and content for each curriculum (including training materials); 
7.  Instructors; 
8.  An annual training schedule; 
9.  Other matters necessary for the implementation of the training. 
(3)  Where the training plan pursuant to paragraph (2) is to be amended, the revised plan shall be 
submitted to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety at least one month prior to the 
commencement of the training. 
(4)  The Minister of Food and Drug Safety may review the training plan and related documents 
submitted pursuant to paragraph (2) and, if necessary, request corrective measures or 
supplementation. 
(5)  The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall approve the training plan submitted pursuant to 
Article 15 (2) of the Enforcement Rule within 15 days from the date of submission. 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
194 
 
Article 22 (Guidance and Inspection of Training Organizations for Quality Manager) (1) The 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall conduct annual guidance and inspections of training 
organizations for quality manager to determine whether training is being properly conducted and 
whether such organizations are being operated in compliance with the training implementation 
rules. 
(2)  Where the Minister of Food and Drug Safety deems that there are problems in the performance 
of training activities due to improper training or the filing of complaints, the Minister may 
conduct guidance and inspections at any time. 
(3)  The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall establish detailed criteria for guidance and 
inspections to be conducted pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2). 
 
Article 23 (Review of Regulation) In accordance with Article 8 of the Framework Act on 
Administrative Regulations and the Regulation on the Issuance and Management of Directives and 
Guidelines, the validity of this Notice shall be reviewed every three years, starting from Jan. 1, 2014 
(until Dec. 31 of every third year), and necessary measures, including improvements, shall be taken. 
 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2005-14, Mar. 16, 2005> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This GMP shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures for Establishments Compliant with the former Good 
Manufacturing Practices) Where, as of the enforcement date of this GMP, a medical device 
manufacturer has obtained conformity recognition certificate with the former Good Manufacturing 
Practice for pursuant to the former Good Manufacturing Practice (Korea Food and Drug 
Administration Notice No. 1998-35, dated Apr. 16, 1998), such manufacturer shall be deemed to be 
in compliance with this GMP until the completion of the periodic audit under Article 6 of this GMP. 
 
Article 3 (Transitional Measures for Medical Device Inspection Organizations) Where, as of 
the enforcement date of this GMP, an organization has been registered with the Korea Food and 
Drug Administration as a medical device inspection organization pursuant to the former Regulation 
on Authorization, etc. of Medical Devices (Korea Food and Drug Administration Notice No. 2003-
48, dated Oct. 13, 2003), such organization shall be deemed to have been registered as a medical 
device audit organization pursuant to Article 8 of this GMP. 
 
ADDENDA <Nov. 21, 2005> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This GMP shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.  
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures for the Criteria for Conformity Assessment of the Good 
Manufacturing Practices for Medical Devices) With respect to 7.1 (d), 7.3.2 (a) 5), 7.5.2.1 (d), 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
195 
 
and 7.5.2.2 of the Criteria for Conformity Assessment and Assessment Checklist for the Good 
Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices specified in [Annex 1], such provisions shall enter into 
force on May 30, 2007. 
 
ADDENDA <Feb. 7, 2007> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This GMP shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
Provided, however, that the provisions of Article 7-2 shall enter into force on Jun. 1, 2007. 
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures) (1) Any application for conformity recognition assessment 
under the GMP for medical devices that was received by an audit organization prior to the 
enforcement of this Notice shall be conducted in accordance with the former Notice. 
(2)  Any person who, as of the enforcement date of this Notice, has been registered as a medical 
device audit organization pursuant to the former Notice shall comply with the standards for 
management and operation of audit organizations specified in [Annex 3] by May 30, 2007.  
 
ADDENDA <Feb. 22, 2008> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This GMP shall enter into force on Mar. 1, 2008.  
 
ADDENDA <Jun. 17, 2009> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This GMP shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
ADDENDA <Aug. 20, 2009> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This GMP shall enter into force on Aug. 30, 2009. 
 
ADDENDA <Dec. 22, 2009> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This GMP shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
ADDENDA <May 7, 2010> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This GMP shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
ADDENDA <Dec. 27, 2010> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This GMP shall enter into force on Jan. 1, 2011. 
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures) Any conformity assessment for applications for conformity 
recognition under the GMP for medical devices that were received by an audit organization prior to 
the enforcement of this GMP shall be conducted in accordance with the former provisions. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
196 
 
 
ADDENDA <Dec. 12, 2011> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This GMP shall enter into force on Apr. 8, 2012. Provided, however, 
that the on-site inspection conducted as part of the periodic renewal assessment pursuant to Article 
8 (3) shall enter into force as of Jan. 1, 2013 for manufacturing sites of Class III imported medical 
devices, and as of Jan. 1, 2014 for manufacturing sites of Class II medical devices (including 
applicable Class I medical devices).  
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures) (1) As of the enforcement date of this GMP, a conformity 
recognition certificate has been issued pursuant to the former provisions, the expiration date of such 
certificate shall be deemed to be the expiration date under this Notice, limited to the remaining 
portion of the original three-year expiration date. 
(2)  As of the enforcement date of this GMP, any product that has undergone a conformity 
assessment for the Good Manufacturing and Importation Practice for Medical Devices 
pursuant to the former provisions shall be deemed to have undergone a conformity assessment 
under the Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices.  
(3)  Any product that has undergone a conformity assessment for the manufacturing (or import) 
and the GMP for medical devices prior to the enforcement date of this GMP shall be deemed to 
have undergone a conformity assessment in accordance with the medical device GMP product 
groups specified in Annex 3.  
(4)  Where, among the conformity recognition certificates issued pursuant to Annex 3 of the former 
Regulation on Authorization, etc. of Medical Devices (Korea Food and Drug Administration 
Notice) or Annex 5 of the former Good Manufacturing and Importation Practice (Korea Food 
and Drug Administration Notice), the relevant product group has been changed pursuant to 
Annex 3 of this Notice, such certificates shall be reissued by Jun. 30, 2012.  
(5)  Any Conformity Recognition Certificate for the Good Manufacturing and Importation Practice 
for medical devices issued prior to the enforcement date of this GMP shall be replaced and 
reissued as a Conformity Recognition Certificate under the Good Manufacturing Practice for 
Medical Devices by Jun. 30, 2012. 
(6)  Any conformity assessment for applications for conformity recognition under the GMP for 
medical devices that were received by an audit organization prior to the enforcement of this 
GMP shall be conducted in accordance with the former provisions. 
 
ADDENDA <Apr. 5, 2012> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This GMP shall enter into force on Apr. 8, 2012. 
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures) (1) As of the enforcement date of this GMP, any product that 
has undergone a conformity assessment for the Good Manufacturing (and Importation) Practice for 
medical devices pursuant to the former provisions shall be deemed to have undergone a conformity 
assessment in accordance with this GMP.  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
197 
 
(2)  Where, among the conformity recognition certificates issued pursuant to Annex 3 of the former 
Regulation on Authorization, etc. of Medical Devices (Korea Food and Drug Administration 
Notice) or Annex 5 of the former Good Manufacturing and Importation Practice (Korea Food 
and Drug Administration Notice), the relevant product group has been changed pursuant to 
Annex 3 of this Notice, such certificates shall be reissued by Jun. 30, 2012.  
(3)  Any conformity assessment for applications for conformity recognition under the GMP for 
medical devices that were received by an audit organization prior to the enforcement of this 
GMP shall be conducted in accordance with the amended Notice. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2013-58, Apr. 5, 2013> 
This GMP shall enter into force on the date of promulgation. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2013-210, Aug. 29, 2013> 
This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.  
 
ADDENDA <No. 2013-219, Sep. 16, 2013> 
This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.  
 
ADDENDA <No. 2014-96, Feb. 12, 2014> 
This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.  
 
ADDENDA <No. 2014-132, Jul. 25, 2014> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
Provided, however, that the amended provisions of Articles 17 through 22 shall enter into force as 
of the date on which Articles 7-4 through 7-8 of the Enforcement Rule of the Medical Device Act 
enter into force. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2015-17, Mar. 30, 2015> 
This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation.  
 
ADDENDA <No. 2015-71, Sep. 25, 2015> 
This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2016-156, Dec. 30, 2016> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force two months after the date of 
promulgation. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
198 
 
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures) Notwithstanding the amended provisions, where, as of the 
enforcement date of this Notice, an application for conformity recognition assessments for medical 
devices has been submitted to an audit organization pursuant to the former provisions or the 
application procedure is in progress, such application shall be governed by the former provisions. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2019-25, Mar. 25, 2019> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force on Jul. 1, 2019. Provided, 
however, that, with respect to usability under 7.3.3 (a) 1) and 7.3.9 (a) of the Criteria for 
Conformity Recognition Assessments for Medical Devices specified in Annex 2, such provisions 
shall enter into force on the dates specified in each of the following subparagraphs: 
1.  Class IV medical devices: Jan. 1, 2021 
2.  Class III medical devices: Jul. 1, 2021 
3.  Class II medical devices: Jan. 1, 2022 
4.  Class I medical devices: Jul. 1, 2022 
 
Article 2 (Special Exemption concerning Conformity Recognition, etc.) Notwithstanding the 
amended provisions of Annex 2, regarding the criteria for conformity recognition assessments for 
medical devices, applications for conformity recognition, etc. may be submitted from the 
enforcement date of this Notice until Jun. 30, 2020, in accordance with Annex 2-2, as classified in 
each of the following subparagraphs: 
1.  The criteria for conformity recognition assessments pursuant to Article 5 (1): Annex 2-2 
shall apply. 
2.  In the case under Article 5 (2) 1: Provisions 7.1, 7.3, 7.4.3, 7.5, 7.6, 8.2.4.1, and 8.3 of 
Annex 2-2 shall apply 
3.  In the case under Article 5 (2) 2: Provisions 4.1, 4.2, 6.1, 6.3, 6.4, 7.5, 7.6, 8.2.4, 8.3, and 
8.5 of Annex 2-2 shall apply 
4.  In the case under Article 5 (2) 3: Provisions 4.1, 4.2, 5.5, 6.4, 7.1, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 8.2.1, 
8.2.4, 8.3, and 8.5 of Annex 2-2 shall apply 
5.  In the case under Article 7 (1) 2 (m): Checklist for Annex 2-2 criteria of the 
manufacturing site 
6.  In the case under Article 7 (1) 2 (n): Declaration of conformity to Annex 2-2 criteria of 
the manufacturing site 
 
Article 3 (Transitional Measures) Notwithstanding the amended provisions, where, as of the 
enforcement date of this Notice, an application for conformity recognition assessments for medical 
devices has been submitted to an audit organization pursuant to the former provisions and is in 
progress, such application shall be governed by the former provisions. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
199 
 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2019-90, Oct. 15, 2019> 
This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2020-41, May 27, 2020> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force on May 29, 2020. 
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures) Notwithstanding the amended provisions, where, as of the 
enforcement date of this Notice, an application for conformity recognition assessments for medical 
devices has been submitted to an audit organization pursuant to the former provisions and is in 
progress, such application shall be governed by the former provisions. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2020-101, Oct. 20, 2020> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures) Where, prior to the enforcement date of this Notice, an 
application for conformity recognition assessments for medical devices has been submitted to an 
audit organization and is in progress, such application shall be governed by the former provisions. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2020-103, Oct. 26, 2020> 
Article 1 (Transitional Measures) (1) Among products for which the product group has been 
changed pursuant to the Regulation on Medical Device Groups and Class by Group (Ministry of 
Food and Drug Safety Notice No. 2020-103, Oct. 26, 2020), any product that, under the former 
provisions, obtained conformity recognition under the Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical 
Devices as a product group falling under 10. Physiological Monitoring Device or 26. Medical 
Device for Ubiquitous Healthcare of Annex 3 shall be deemed to have obtained conformity 
recognition as a product group falling under 28. Software of Annex 3. 
(2)  Where a manufacturer or importer of the relevant product has been notified of matters deemed 
to have been changed pursuant to Article 3 (3) of the Addenda to the Regulation on Medical 
Device Groups and Class by Group (Ministry of Food and Drug Safety Notice No. 2020-103, 
Oct. 26, 2020), such manufacturer or importer shall record and attach the notified changes on 
the reverse side of the conformity recognition certificate. 
(3)  Where a manufacturer or importer has obtained authorization or certification under the 
amended provisions after having obtained conformity recognition under the former provisions 
pursuant to Article 2 of the Addenda to the Regulation on Medical Device Groups and Class by 
Group (Ministry of Food and Drug Safety Notice No. 2020-103, Oct. 26, 2020), such 
manufacturer or importer shall record the changed information on the reverse side of the 
conformity recognition certificate. 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
200 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2021-28, Apr. 1, 2021> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force as of Jun. 1, 2021, from the date of 
its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Transitional Measures) Where, prior to the enforcement date of this Notice, an 
application for conformity recognition assessments for medical devices has been submitted to an 
audit organization and is in progress, such application shall be governed by the former provisions. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2021-83, Oct. 28, 2021> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
Articles 2 through 8 are omitted. 
 
Article 9 (Amendment of Other Notices) (1) The Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical 
Devices (Ministry of Food and Drug Safety Notice No. 2021-28, Apr. 1, 2021) shall be partially 
amended as follows: 
1.  In Annex 3 Medical Device GMP Product Groups (related to Articles 4 and 5), under 13. 
Machine or Instrument for Medical Treatment, “C21000 Implant instrument” shall be 
amended to “C21000 Dental Implant,” and “C24000 Agent for Dental Use” shall be 
amended to “C24000 Cold Pulp Testing Agent.” 
2.  In Annex 3 Medical Device GMP Product Groups (related to Articles 4 and 5), under 19. 
Interbody Implants for Medical Purpose, “C18000 Maxillofacial Implant” shall be 
amended to “C18000 Maxillofacial Plastic Material,” “C19000 Maxillary Bone Fixation 
Materialt” shall be amended to “C19000 Maxillary Bone Fixation Material,” and 
“C20000 Endosseous Implant System” shall be amended to “C20000 Dental Implant 
System.” 
3.  In Annex 3 Medical Device GMP Product Groups (related to Articles 4 and 5), under 20. 
Substitute of Human Tissue or Body Function, “C22000 Bone Graft Material” shall be 
amended to “C22000 Dental Bone Graft Material,” and “C23000 Intra Oral Tissue 
Regeneration Barrier” shall be amended to “C23000 Guided Bone and Tissue 
Regeneration Material.” 
4.  In Annex 3 Medical Device GMP Product Groups (related to Articles 4 and 5), under 23. 
Dental Alloy, “C01000 Alloy, foil” shall be amended to “C01000 Dental Processing 
Alloy,” and “C02000 Alloy, casting” shall be amended to “C02000 Dental Casting 
Alloy.” 
5.  In Annex 3 Medical Device GMP Product Groups (related to Articles 4 and 5), under 23. 
Dental Alloy, “C03000 Alloy, metal-ceramic” shall be amended to “C03000 Metal-
Ceramic Alloy,” “C04000 Alloy, soldering” shall be amended to “C04000 Soldering 
Alloy,” and “C05000 Alloy, artificial” shall be amended to “C05000 Fabricated Alloy.” 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
201 
 
6.  In Annex 3 Medical Device GMP Product Groups (related to Articles 4 and 5), under 24. 
Other Materials for Dental Treatment, “C06000 Filling material for dental use” shall be 
amended to “C06000 Direct Restorative Material,” and “C07000 Crown & bridge 
material for dental use” shall be amended to “C07000 Esthetic Prosthetic Material.” 
7.  In Annex 3 Medical Device GMP Product Groups (related to Articles 4 and 5), under 24. 
Other Materials for Dental Treatment, “C08000 Artificial teeth material” shall be 
amended to “C08000 Denture Making Material/Denture Material,” “C09000 Denture 
material” shall be amended to “C09000 Denture Base Material/Denture Base Resin,” and 
“C10000 Endodontic material for root canal” shall be amended to “C10000 Material for 
Root Canal Therapy.” 
8.  In Annex 3 Medical Device GMP Product Groups (related to Articles 4 and 5), under 24. 
Other Materials for Dental Treatment, “C11000 Cement for dental use” shall be amended 
to “C11000 Dental Adhesive Cement,” and “C12000 Adhesive for dental use” shall be 
amended to “C12000 Dental Bonding Agent.” 
9.  In Annex 3 Medical Device GMP Product Groups (related to Articles 4 and 5), under 24. 
Other Materials for Dental Treatment, “C13000 Impression material for dental use” shall 
be amended to “C13000 Dental Impression Material,” and “C14000 Wax for dental use” 
shall be amended to “C14000 Dental Wax.” 
10.  In Annex 3 Medical Device GMP Product Groups (related to Articles 4 and 5), under 24. 
Other Materials for Dental Treatment, “C16000 Protection material for dental use” shall 
be amended to “C16000 Preventive Dental Material,” and “C17000 Orthodontic 
material” shall be amended to “C17000 Orthodontic Material.” 
11.  In Annex 3 Medical Device GMP Product Groups (related to Articles 4 and 5), under 24. 
Other Materials for Dental Treatment, “C25000 Separating material for prosthesis” shall 
be amended to “C25000 Prosthetic Adhesive Remover,” “C26000 Material for 
prosthesis” shall be amended to “C26000 Other Prosthetic Material,” and “C27000 
Retentive material for dental use” shall be amended to “C27000 Other Restorative-
Endodontic Material.” 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2022-8, Feb. 10, 2022> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2023-31, May 12, 2023> 
Article 1 (enforcement date) This Notice shall enter into force six months after the date of 
promulgation. Provided, however, that the amended provisions of Article 1, Article 7 (1) 2 (limited 
to the amendment deleting item (r) of the same subparagraph), Article 8, and Annex 4 shall enter 
into force on the date of promulgation. announcement. 
 
Article 2 (Cases of Application) This amended Notice shall apply to manufacturing sites that apply 
for conformity recognition assessments for medical devices after the enforcement of this Notice. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
202 
 
 
Article 3 (Transitional Measures) (1) A person who, at the time of enforcement of this Notice, has 
been issued a conformity recognition certificate for medical devices under the previous Notice shall 
be deemed to have been issued a conformity recognition certificate for medical devices under this 
amended Notice. 
(2)  Where a conformity recognition assessment of medical devices has been applied for and is in 
progress, the previous regulations shall apply. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2023-79, Dec. 19, 2023> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Cases of Application) This amended Notice shall apply to manufacturing sites that first 
apply for conformity recognition assessments after the enforcement of this Notice. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2024-88, Dec. 27, 2024> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
Provided, however, that the amended provisions of Article 8 (6), Article 9 (1) 1, Article 10 (5), and 
Annex 2, 9.4 (2) shall enter into force on May 1, 2025, after the date of promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Cases of Application) Where, prior to the enforcement date of this Notice, an 
application for conformity recognition assessments for medical devices has been submitted and is in 
progress, such application shall be governed by the former provisions. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2025-22, Apr. 7, 2025> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Cases of Application concerning the Assessment Entity for Conformity Recognition, 
etc.) The amended provisions of Annex 4 shall apply to conformity recognition assessments that 
were applied for prior to the enforcement of this Notice. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2025-80, Dec. 9, 2025> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Cases of Application) This amended Notice shall apply to manufacturing sites that apply 
for conformity recognition assessments for medical devices after the enforcement of this Notice. 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
203 
 
[Annex 1] 
 
Definitions 
(Related to Article 2) 
 
 
1.  “Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices” means a quality management 
system that prescribes the requirements to be observed to ensure the quality of medical devices 
throughout all processes—from development and procurement of raw materials to 
manufacturing, testing, packaging, installation, storage, shipment, and the handling of 
complaints or returns—so that products of consistently high quality may be supplied.  
2.  “Conformity Recognition Assessments” means assessments conducted to determine whether a 
medical device can be consistently manufactured with a high level of assurance of safety, 
effectiveness, and quality appropriate for its intended use. 
3.  “Quality Management System” means a management system for efficiently managing the 
organization, responsibilities, procedures, processes, and resources for product quality 
management. 
4.  “Product Group” means a set of products that share similar raw materials, manufacturing 
processes, and quality control systems, the classification of which shall be in accordance with 
Annex 3. 
5.  “Manufacturing Site of Potential Concern” means a manufacturing site that falls under any of 
the following cases: 
(a)  If the applicant manufacturing site has failed a GMP assessment within the past three 
years; 
(b)  If the product group subject to the application has been found noncompliant in quality 
based on sampling inspection results within the past three years; 
(c)  If the product subject to the application has been subject to compulsory recall, suspension 
of use, suspension of manufacturing, or similar regulatory actions by domestic or foreign 
government authorities within the past three years. 
6.  “Manufacturing Unit” or “Lot” means a unit of finished products, components, or raw 
materials manufactured under the same manufacturing conditions and having uniform 
characteristics and quality. 
7.  “Device Master Record (DMR)” means a document that contains detailed information on all 
manufacturing processes—from the design of the product to shipment (installation)—including 
specifications, manufacturing processes, manufacturing criteria, and installation, for each 
medical device item or model. 
8.  “Manufacturing” means all operations required to produce medical devices, including design, 
packaging, and labeling. 
9.  “Quality” means the degree to which a set of inherent characteristics fulfills requirements. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
204 
 
10.  “Quality Control (QC)” means the part of quality management that focuses on fulfilling quality 
requirements. 
11.  “Safety” means the property of being free from hazards or the risk of malfunction, and of 
ensuring safe performance. 
12.  “Sterilized Device” means a medical device that undergoes a sterilization process during 
manufacturing and is labeled as sterilized on the product container or packaging with 
indications such as the word “sterile,” the sterilization method, and the expiration date. 
13.  “Batch” means a specified quantity of products produced during a defined manufacturing 
cycle, intended to have uniform characteristics and quality. 
14.  “Sterilization” means a process that uses physical or chemical methods to destroy all forms of 
microorganisms, including spores. 
15.  “Organization” means a group of personnel and facilities with an established arrangement of 
responsibilities, authorities, and interrelationships. 
16.  “Quality Manual” means a document that defines the manufacturer’s quality management 
system and describes the details or requirements appropriate to the scale and complexity of the 
organization. 
17.  “Quality Policy” means the overall intentions and direction of an organization related to 
quality, as formally expressed by top management.  
18.  “Quality Objective” means a target or objective that is pursued with respect to quality. 
19.  “Manufacturing Process” means the activities related to the design and development, 
procurement of raw materials, incoming inspection, production, in-process inspection, finished 
product inspection, packaging, labeling, shipment, and storage for the manufacture of medical 
devices. 
20.  “Process” means a set of interrelated or interacting activities that transforms inputs into 
outputs. 
21.  “Procedure” means an established method for performing an activity or process.  
22.  “Document” means criteria or procedures that are specified or created prior to performing an 
activity. 
23.  “Record” means a document that states achieved results or provides evidence of activities 
performed.  
24.  “Review” means an activity conducted to determine the suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness 
of a subject in order to achieve established objectives. 
25.  “Service” means an intangible output of an organization involving activities that necessarily 
occur between the organization and the customer, such as decision-making, relationship-
maintenance activities, repair, transportation, and information delivery. 
26.  “Management Review” means an activity conducted by top management at planned intervals 
to evaluate the need for changes to, and the potential for improvement of, the quality 
management system, including the quality policy and quality objectives, in order to ensure its 
continuing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
205 
 
27.  “Requirement” means an expressed need or expectation, generally one that is implicit or 
obligatory.  
28.  “Effectiveness” means the extent to which planned activities are realized and planned results 
are achieved. 
29.  “Efficiency” means the ratio or relationship between the results achieved and the resources 
used. 
30.  “Infrastructure” means the system of facilities, equipment, and services required for the 
operation of an organization. 
31.  “Production Realization” means the combined sequence of processes and detailed processes 
required to achieve a product. 
32.  Deleted 
33.  “Design and Development” means a set of processes that transforms requirements into 
specified characteristics or into the specifications of a product, process, or system.  
34.  “Verification” means confirmation, through the provision of objective evidence (data 
demonstrating the existence of something or substantiating a fact) and testing, that specified 
requirements have been fulfilled.  
35.  “Validation” means the act of verifying and documenting that methods of manufacturing and 
quality control—including the structure and facilities of the manufacturing site, manufacturing 
processes, and systems—achieve the intended results. 
36.  “Revalidation” means validation activities that are conducted either periodically or in response 
to changes to raw materials, manufacturing processes, machinery and equipment, or 
manufacturing systems that may have an impact on product quality. 
37.  “Cleaning” means a chemical or physical method used to remove contaminants or 
microorganisms from surfaces. 
38.  “Installation” means the activities of placing a product at the site of use and enabling it to 
operate in accordance with its intended purpose, including arrangements such as piping and 
waste disposal. 
39.  “Traceability” means identifying and managing the sources of raw materials and components 
of a medical device, its quality control history, and information on its distributors and users 
(locations). 
40.  “Identification” means the activities performed at all stages—including raw materials, 
materials, in-process products, and finished products—to ensure product traceability and 
proper transfer to the next process or shipment. 
41.  “Customer” means a collective term for purchasers and users (patients and healthcare 
professionals).  
42.  “Customer Property” means assets owned by the customer, which include each of the 
following items: 
(a)  Raw materials or components (including packaging materials) provided for inclusion in 
the product;  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
206 
 
(b)  Products supplied for repair, maintenance, or upgrading; 
(c)  Products supplied for additional processes (such as packaging, sterilization, or testing 
using customer-provided materials); 
(d)  Services provided on behalf of the customer (e.g., transportation of customer property to 
a third party); 
(e) Customer intellectual property (e.g., specifications, drawings, and asset information). 
43.  “Measuring Equipment” means measuring instruments, software, measurement standards, 
reference materials, auxiliary devices, or combinations thereof required to carry out a 
measurement process. 
44.  “Calibration” means the operation that confirms that a specific device or instrument produces 
results within the prescribed limits when measured against measurement standards recognized 
under international or national standards. 
45.  “Audit” means a systematic and independent verification activity conducted to determine 
whether quality-related work and its associated results conform to planned arrangements and 
whether such arrangements have been effectively implemented and are suitable for achieving 
the intended objectives. 
46.  “Concession” means written approval to use or release a specific product that has minor 
nonconformities not directly related to safety or effectiveness, provided that statutory 
requirements are met. 
47.  “Correction” means an action taken to eliminate a detected nonconformity. 
48.  “Corrective Action” means an action taken to eliminate the cause of a detected nonconformity 
or other undesirable situation. 
49.  “Preventive Action” means an action taken to eliminate the cause of a potential nonconformity 
or other undesirable situation to prevent its occurrence. 
50.  “Risk Management” means an advanced safety management system that analyzes and 
evaluates all risks that may arise throughout the entire life cycle of a medical device—
including design, production, distribution, and use—and manages those risks to an acceptable 
level.  
51.  “Rework” means an operation performed to bring a nonconforming product into conformity 
with quality standards by applying a method different from the established manufacturing 
process. 
52.  “Advisory Notice” means a communication issued by the manufacturing site after delivery of a 
medical device for the purpose of providing additional information or recommending actions 
regarding the use, change, return, or disposal of the medical device. 
53.  “Single-agency Assessment” means conducting document review and on-site inspection for 
conformity recognition assessments solely by the head of the audit organization. 
54.  “Joint” means that the documentation review and on-site inspection for conformity recognition 
assessments is conducted jointly by the Commissioner of Regional Office and the head of the 
audit organization. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
207 
 
55.  “Senior Quality Auditor” means a person who is affiliated with the audit organization 
designated by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety and who oversees conformity recognition 
assessment activities for medical devices. 
56.  “Quality Auditor” means a person affiliated with the audit organization designated by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety who conducts conformity recognition assessment activities. 
57.  “Legal Manufacturer” means a person who, under a contractual relationship, entrusts all or the 
principal manufacturing processes of a medical device falling under any of the following items 
to a manufacturer under subparagraph 58 and bears statutory responsibility therefor.  
(a)  A medical device that has obtained, or intends to obtain, authorization or certification 
from the Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
(b)  A medical device that has submitted, or intends to submit, a notification to the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety. 
58.  “Manufacturer” means a person who performs all or major manufacturing processes of the 
medical devices specified in each item of subparagraph 57 and bears legal responsibility 
therefor, or a person who, under a contractual relationship, undertakes all or major 
manufacturing processes of the relevant product from the legal manufacturer under 
subparagraph 57.  
59.  “Quality Nonconformity” means a case in which a medical device manufactured or imported 
for the purpose of sale by a medical device manufacturer or importer is found to be 
nonconforming as a result of inspection under Article 32 or Article 33 of the Medical Device 
Act. 
60.  “Supplier” means an individual or organization that provides part or all of components, 
processes, or services. 
61.  “Clinical Evaluation” means the assessment and analysis of clinical data to verify the clinical 
safety and performance of a medical device when used as intended by the organization. 
62.  “Complaint” means any written, electronic, or oral communication alleging defects related to 
the identification, quality, durability, reliability, usability, safety, or performance of a medical 
device after it has left the organization’s control, or alleging defects in services that affect the 
performance of such devices. 
63.  Deleted 
64.  “Sterile Barrier System” means the minimum packaging that prevents microbial ingress and 
ensures that the product is presented sterile at the point of use. 
65.  “Life Cycle” means all stages of the life of a medical device, from initial conception to final 
disposal and processing. 
66.  “Product” means the output of a process and includes each of the following items: 
(a)  Hardware; 
(b)  Software; 
(c)  Processed materials; 
(d)  Services. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
208 
 
67.  Deleted 
68.  “Critical/Core Process” means a process in which an intermediate product at a particular stage 
acquires the form of a finished medical device and, even after further processing (cleaning, 
packaging, or sterilization), its configuration, structure, or performance remains unchanged. 
69.  “Combination Medical Device” means a medical device that is combined or integrated with 
drugs, etc., where the primary function corresponds to that of a medical device. 
70.  “Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP)” means a system in which the results of 
quality management system conformity recognition and related audits conducted by audit 
organizations (AO) jointly designated and operated by participating jurisdictions, including the 
United States and Japan, are mutually recognized by multiple countries.  
71.  “Excellent Manufacturing Site” means a manufacturing site that satisfies all of the following 
items: 
(a)  It is not classified as a Manufacturing Site of Potential Concern under subparagraph 5; 
(b)  It has not been subject to administrative dispositions under the Medical Device Act 
within the past three years; 
(c)  During the most recent periodic assessment, an on-site inspection was conducted and the 
result was ‘conforming’; 
(d)  For imported medical devices, where the applicant holds a valid conformity recognition 
certificate to the quality management system issued by the regulatory authority or an 
organization delegated by the regulatory authority, and can demonstrate that all corrective 
actions for any nonconformities identified in the certificate have been completed. 
72.  “Combined Assessment” means an assessment conducted concurrently by an audit 
organization designated under the Medical Device Single Audit Program pursuant to 
subparagraph 70, in which the conformity recognition assessments under this Notice are 
combined with the quality management system conformity recognition assessment under the 
Medical Device Single Audit Program. 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
209 
 
[Annex 2] 
 
Criteria for Conformity Recognition Assessments of Medical Devices 
(Related to Article 5 and 6) 
 
1.  Purpose 
The purpose of the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices is to specify the 
requirements of the quality management system applied to the design and development, 
production, installation, and servicing of medical devices by manufacturers or by 
manufacturing sites of imported medical devices (hereinafter referred to as the 
“organization”). 
 
2.  Scope of Application 
Where, due to the activities performed by the organization or the characteristics of medical 
devices to which this GMP apply, any requirement under Chapter 6 (Resource Management), 
Chapter 7 (Production Realization), or Chapter 8 (Measurement, Analysis, and Improvement) 
is not applicable, the organization may exclude such requirement from its quality management 
system. Provided, however, that the organization shall document the justification for each 
excluded requirement in accordance with Section 4.2.2. 
 
3.  Definitions  
(a)  With respect to the requirements in this GMP that are limited to those “where 
applicable,” the organization shall be deemed applicable unless it otherwise provides 
reasonable justification. 
(b)  Where a requirement in this GMP is stated as “shall document,” it also includes the 
requirement to establish, implement, and maintain the corresponding content. 
(c)  In applying this GMP, the definitions of other terms shall be in accordance with Annex 1. 
 
4.  Quality Management System 
4.1  General Requirements 
4.1.1 (a) The organization shall document its quality management system in accordance with the 
requirements of this GMP and applicable statutory requirements, and shall maintain the 
effectiveness of the quality management system.  
(b) The organization shall establish, implement, and maintain specific requirements, 
procedures, activities, or methods of operation that must be documented pursuant to this 
GMP and applicable statutory requirements.  
(c) The organization shall document the roles required to perform in accordance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
210 
 
 
4.1.2 The organization shall implement the following: 
1)  Determine the processes necessary for the quality management system, taking into 
account the roles performed by the organization, and apply those processes throughout 
the organization; 
2)  Apply a risk-based approach to the appropriate management of processes required for the 
quality management system; 
3)  Determine the sequence and interaction of those processes. 
 
4.1.3 For the processes of the quality management system, the organization shall perform the 
following: 
1)  Determine the criteria and methods necessary to ensure the effective operation and 
control of the processes; 
2)  Ensure the availability of information and resources necessary to support the operation 
and monitoring of the processes; 
3)  Take necessary actions to achieve planned results and maintain the effectiveness of the 
processes; 
4)  Monitor such processes and, where applicable, measure and analyze them; 
5)  Prepare and maintain the records necessary to demonstrate conformity with this GMP and 
compliance with applicable statutory requirements. 
 
4.1.4 The organization shall control quality management system processes in conformity with this 
GMP and applicable statutory requirements. Where such processes are to be changed, the 
organization shall perform the following: 
1)  Evaluate whether the change to the process affects the quality management system; 
2)  Evaluate whether the change to the process affects the medical devices produced under 
the quality management system; 
3)  Control such matters in accordance with this GMP and applicable statutory requirements. 
 
4.1.5 (a) Where the organization outsources any process that affects product conformity 
requirements, it shall ensure that such processes are monitored and controlled.  
(b)  The organization shall retain responsibility for ensuring compliance with this GMP, 
customer requirements, and applicable statutory requirements for outsourced processes. 
(c)  Control of outsourced processes shall be proportionate to the associated risks and to the 
capability of the contracted supplier to meet the requirements under paragraph 7.4, and 
shall include a written quality agreement. 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
211 
 
4.1.6 (a) The organization shall document procedures for the validation of computer software used 
in the quality management system.  
(b)  Such software shall be validated prior to initial use, and where applicable, shall also be 
validated following any changes to the software or its application. 
(c)  Specific approaches and activities related to software validation and revalidation shall be 
proportionate to the risks associated with the use of the software.  
(d)  Records of these activities shall be maintained.   
 
4.2  Documentation Requirements 
4.2.1 General Requirements 
Documentation of the quality management system shall include the following: 
1)  Documented quality policy and quality objectives; 
2)  Quality manual; 
3)  Documented procedures and records required by this GMP; 
4)  Documents, including records, determined by the organization to be necessary to ensure 
the effective planning, operation, and control of its processes; 
5)  Any additional documentation required by applicable statutory requirements. 
 
4.2.2 Quality Manual 
(a)  The organization shall document a quality manual that includes the following: 
1)  The scope of the quality management system, including details of any exclusions or 
non-applications and their justification; 
2)  Documented procedures established for the quality management system and 
reference to such documents; 
3)  A description of the interactions between processes of the quality management 
system. 
(b)  The quality manual shall briefly specify the structure of the documents used in the quality 
management system. 
 
4.2.3 Medical Device File 
(a)  For each medical device model or item, the organization shall establish and maintain one 
or more files containing or referencing documents generated to demonstrate conformity 
with this GMP and compliance with applicable statutory requirements. 
(b)  The contents of the medical device file shall include, but not be limited to, the following:  
1)  A general description of the medical device, including its intended use/purpose and 
all instructions for use; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
212 
 
2)  Product specifications; 
3)  Specifications and procedures for manufacturing, packaging, storage, handling, and 
distribution; 
4)  Measurement and monitoring procedures; 
5)  Installation requirements, where applicable; 
6)  Servicing procedures, where applicable. 
 
4.2.4 Control of Documents 
(a)  Documents required by the quality management system shall be controlled. Records are a 
special type of document and shall be controlled in accordance with Section 4.2.5.  
(b)  Procedures necessary to control the following shall be documented: 
1)  Review and approval of documents for adequacy prior to issuance; 
2)  Review, update, and re-approval of documents as necessary; 
3)  Ensure that changes to documents and the current revision status are identified; 
4)  Ensure that applicable versions of documents are available at points of use;  
5)  Ensure that documents remain legible and readily identifiable;  
6)  Ensure that documents of external origin determined by the organization to be 
necessary for the planning and operation of the quality management system are 
identified and their distribution controlled; 
7)  Prevent deterioration or loss of documents; 
8)  Preventing the unintended use of obsolete documents and applying appropriate 
identification if they are retained for any purpose. 
(c)  The organization shall ensure that document changes are reviewed and approved by the 
original approving authority or another designated authority with access to background 
information on which the organization’s decisions are based. 
(d)  The organization shall retain at least one copy of obsolete controlled documents for a 
period corresponding to the product’s life cycle, which shall be no less than the retention 
period required for records. 
 
4.2.5 Control of Records 
(a)  Records shall be established and maintained to demonstrate the effective operation of the 
quality management system and conformity to requirements.  
(b)  The organization shall document procedures defining the controls needed for the 
identification, storage, security and integrity, retrieval, retention period, and disposition 
of records.  
(c)  The organization shall establish and implement methods to protect personal health 
information contained in records in accordance with applicable statutory requirements. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
213 
 
(d)  All records shall be easily legible, readily identifiable, and retrievable. Any changes to 
records shall remain identifiable. 
(e)  The organization shall retain records for a period corresponding to the product’s life 
cycle. This period shall be at least five years from the date of manufacture and at least 
two years after release to the market. 
 
5.  Management Responsibility 
5.1  Management Commitment 
Top management shall demonstrate its commitment to the development and implementation 
of the quality management system and to maintaining its effectiveness through the following:  
1)  Communicate the importance of fulfilling customer requirements and applicable statutory 
requirements with the organization; 
2)  Establish the quality policy; 
3)  Ensure that quality objectives are established; 
4)  Conduct management reviews; 
5)  Ensure the availability of resources. 
 
5.2  Customer Focus 
Top management shall ensure that customer requirements and applicable statutory 
requirements are determined and fulfilled. 
 
5.3  Quality Policy 
Top management shall ensure that the quality policy: 
1)  Is appropriate to the purpose of the organization; 
2)  Includes a commitment to comply with requirements and to maintain the effectiveness of 
the quality management system; 
3)  Provides a framework for establishing and reviewing quality objectives; 
4)  Is communicated and understood within the organization; 
5)  Is reviewed for continuing suitability. 
 
5.4  Planning 
5.4.1 Quality Objectives 
(a)  Top management shall ensure that the quality objectives include the necessary elements 
to meet applicable statutory requirements and product requirements, and that they are 
established at relevant functions and levels within the organization.  
(b)  The quality objectives shall be measurable and shall be consistent with the quality policy. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
214 
 
5.4.2 Planning of the Quality Management System 
Top management shall ensure the following: 
1)  The planning of the quality management system is carried out not only to achieve the 
quality objectives but also to meet the requirements of Section 4.1;  
2)  The integrity of the quality management system is maintained when changes to the 
quality management system are planned and implemented.  
 
5.5  Responsibility, Authority, and Communication 
5.5.1 Responsibility and Authority 
(a) Top management shall ensure that responsibilities and authorities within the organization 
are defined, documented, and communicated. 
(b) Top management shall document the interrelationships of all personnel who manage, 
perform, and verify work affecting quality, and shall ensure the authority and 
independence necessary to perform such work. 
 
5.5.2 Quality Manager 
Top management shall appoint a person within the organization who, irrespective of other 
responsibilities, has the authority and responsibility to perform the following: 
1)  Ensure that the processes necessary for the quality management system are documented; 
2)  Report to top management on the performance and effectiveness of the quality 
management system and on the need for improvement; 
3)  Ensure that awareness of applicable statutory requirements and quality management 
system requirements is promoted throughout the organization. 
 
5.5.3 Internal Communication 
 
Top management shall ensure that appropriate communication processes are established within 
the organization and that communication regarding the effectiveness of the quality 
management system is carried out. 
 
5.6  Management Review 
5.6.1 General Requirements 
(a)  The organization shall document the procedure for management review.  
(b)  Top management shall review the quality management system at documented planned 
intervals to ensure its continuing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness.  
(c)  Management reviews shall evaluate the need for changes to the quality management 
system, including the quality policy and quality objectives, and shall identify 
opportunities for improvement. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
215 
 
(d)  Records of management reviews shall be maintained. 
 
5.6.2 Review Inputs 
 
The inputs to management review shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
1)  Feedback; 
2)  Handling of complaints; 
3)  Reports to regulatory authorities; 
4)  Audits; 
5)  Monitoring and measurement of processes; 
6)  Monitoring and measurement of product; 
7)  Corrective action; 
8)  Preventive action; 
9)  Follow-up actions from previous management reviews; 
10)  Changes that could affect the quality management system; 
11)  Recommendations for improvement; 
12)  New or revised applicable statutory requirements. 
 
5.6.3 Review Outputs 
 
The outputs of management review shall be recorded and shall include decisions and actions 
related to the reviewed inputs and the following: 
1)  Improvements needed to maintain the suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of the 
quality management system and its processes; 
2)  Improvement of product related to customer requirements; 
3)  Changes needed to meet new or revised applicable statutory requirements; 
4)  Resource needs. 
 
6.  Resource Management 
6.1  Provision of Resources 
 
The organization shall determine and provide the resources needed for: 
1)  Implementing the quality management system and maintaining its effectiveness; 
2)  Meeting applicable regulatory requirements and customer requirements. 
 
6.2  Human Resources 
(a)  Personnel performing work affecting product quality shall be competent on the basis of 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
216 
 
appropriate education, training, skills, and experience.  
(b)  The organization shall establish the competencies required of personnel, provide the 
necessary training, and establish and document processes to ensure personnel awareness. 
(c)  The organization shall perform the following:  
1)  Determine the competencies needed for personnel performing work that affects 
product quality;  
2)  Provide training or take other actions to achieve or maintain the necessary 
competencies;  
3)  Evaluate the effectiveness of the actions taken; 
4)  Ensure that personnel are aware of the relevance and importance of their activities 
and how they contribute to the achievement of quality objectives;  
5)  Maintain appropriate records of education, training, skills, and experience. 
 
6.3.  Infrastructure 
(a)  The organization shall document the infrastructure requirements necessary to ensure 
conformity to product requirements, prevent product mix-ups, and ensure orderly 
handling. Where applicable, infrastructure includes: 
1)  Buildings, workspace, and associated facilities; 
2)  Process equipment (hardware and software); 
3)  Supporting services such as transport, communication, or information systems. 
(b)  Where maintenance activities of infrastructure, or lack thereof, may affect product 
quality, the organization shall document the maintenance requirements, including 
maintenance intervals. Where applicable, these requirements shall apply to equipment 
used for manufacturing, work environment control, and monitoring and measurement. 
(c)  Records of such maintenance activities shall be maintained. 
 
6.4  Work Environment and Contamination Control 
6.4.1 Work Environment 
(a)  The organization shall document the requirements for the work environment necessary to 
ensure conformity to product requirements. 
(b)  Where work environment conditions may have an adverse effect on product quality, the 
organization shall document the requirements for the work environment and procedures 
for monitoring and controlling such conditions. 
(c)  The organization shall perform the following requirements: 
1)  Where personnel may come into contact with the product or the work environment 
in a manner that could affect the safety or performance of medical devices, 
requirements for personnel health, cleanliness, and clothing shall be documented. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
217 
 
2)  All personnel who work temporarily under special environmental conditions shall 
be competent or shall be supervised by competent personnel. 
 
6.4.2 Contamination Control 
(a)  Where applicable, the organization shall plan and document methods for controlling 
products that are contaminated or potentially contaminated, in order to prevent 
contamination of the work environment, personnel, or products.  
(b)  For sterilized medical devices, the organization shall document requirements for 
contamination control related to microorganisms or particulates and shall maintain the 
required cleanliness during assembly or packaging processes. 
 
7.  Production Realization 
7.1  Planning of Production Realization 
(a)  The organization shall plan and develop the processes needed for production realization. 
Planning of production realization shall be consistent with the other process requirements 
of the quality management system. 
(b)  The organization shall document one or more processes for risk management during 
production realization, and records of risk management activities shall be maintained.  
(c)  Where applicable, the organization shall determine the following in planning production 
realization:  
1)  Quality objectives and requirements for the product; 
2)  The need to establish and document processes, and to provide specific resources for 
the product, including infrastructure and work environment; 
3)  Specific verification, validation, monitoring, measurement, testing and inspection, 
handling, storage, distribution, and traceability activities required for the product, 
along with the criteria for product acceptance; 
4)  Records necessary to demonstrate that production realization processes and their 
outputs meet requirements. 
(d)  The outputs of such planning shall be documented in a form appropriate to the 
organization’s method of operation. 
 
7.2  Customer-Related Processes 
7.2.1 Determination of Requirements Related to the Product 
 
The organization shall determine the following:  
1)  Requirements specified by the customer, including those related to delivery and post-
delivery activities; 
2)  Requirements not stated by the customer but necessary for known specified or intended 
use;  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
218 
 
3)  Applicable statutory requirements related to the product; 
4)  User training necessary to ensure stated performance and safe use of the medical device; 
5)  Any additional requirements determined by the organization. 
 
7.2.2 Review of Requirements Related to the Product 
(a)  The organization shall review the requirements related to the product. This review shall 
be conducted prior to the organization’s commitment to supply the product to the 
customer.  
1)  The requirements for the product are defined and documented; 
2)  Any contract or order requirements differing from those previously expressed are 
resolved; 
3)  Applicable statutory requirements are met; 
4)  User training determined under Section 7.2.1 is feasible or planned to be feasible; 
5)  The organization has the capability to meet the defined requirements. 
(b)  Records of the results of the review and any actions arising from the review shall be 
maintained. 
(c)  Where the customer does not provide documented requirements, the organization shall 
confirm the customer requirements prior to acceptance.  
(d)  When product requirements are changed, the organization shall amend the relevant 
documents and ensure that relevant personnel are made aware of the changed 
requirements.   
 
7.2.3 Communication 
(a)  The organization shall plan and document the methods for communicating with 
customers regarding: 
1)  Product information; 
2)  Handling inquiries, including amendments, contracts, or orders; 
3)  Customer feedback, including complaints; 
4)  Advisory notices. 
(b)  The organization shall communicate with regulatory authorities in accordance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 
 
7.3.  Design and Development 
7.3.1 General  
 
The organization shall document procedures for design and development.  
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
219 
 
7.3.2 Design and Development Planning 
(a)  The organization shall plan and control the design and development of the product. 
Where applicable, the design and development plan shall be maintained and updated as 
design and development progress. 
(b)  The organization shall document the following in the course of design and development 
planning:  
1)  The stages of design and development; 
2)  The reviews required at each stage of design and development;  
3)  The verification, validation, and design transfer activities appropriate to each stage 
of design and development; 
4)  The responsibilities and authorities for design and development; 
5)  The methods to ensure traceability between design and development inputs and 
outputs; 
6)  The necessary resources, including personnel competence. 
 
7.3.3 Design and Development Inputs 
(a)  The organization shall determine and maintain records of inputs relating to product 
requirements. These inputs shall include:  
1)  Functional, performance, usability, and safety requirements necessary for the 
intended use; 
2)  Applicable statutory requirements and standards; 
3)  Applicable risk management outputs; 
4)  Information derived from previous similar designs, where applicable; 
5)  Other requirements essential for the design and development of the product and 
process. 
(b)  Such inputs shall be reviewed and approved for adequacy.  
(c)  Product requirements shall be clear, unambiguous, verifiable or validatable, and shall not 
conflict with other requirements. 
 
7.3.4 Design and Development Outputs 
(a)  The design and development outputs shall: 
1)  Meet the design and development input requirements; 
2)  Provide appropriate information for purchasing, production, and service provision; 
3)  Include or reference the criteria for product acceptance;   
4)  Specify the characteristics of the product that are essential for safe and proper use. 
(b)  The outputs of the design and development process shall be provided in a form that 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
220 
 
enables verification against the design and development inputs and shall be approved 
prior to release.  
(c)  Records of the design and development outputs shall be maintained. 
 
7.3.5 Design and Development Review 
(a)  Systematic reviews of the design and development shall be conducted at appropriate 
stages in accordance with planned and documented methods for the purpose of:  
1)  Evaluating the ability of the design and development results to meet the 
requirements; 
2)  Identifying and proposing any necessary actions. 
(b)  Personnel participating in such reviews shall include not only the persons responsible for 
the design and development stage under review, but also other relevant experts. 
(c)  Records of the results of the reviews and any necessary actions shall be maintained and 
shall include identification of the design under review, the personnel participating in the 
review, and the dates of the review.  
 
7.3.6 Design and Development Verification  
(a)  Design and development verification shall be performed in accordance with planned and 
documented methods to ensure that the design and development outputs meet the input 
requirements.  
(b)  The organization shall document the verification plan, including the verification methods, 
acceptance criteria, and, where applicable, statistical techniques with justification for 
sample size. 
(c)  If the intended use requires the medical device to be connected to or interfaced with 
another medical device, the verification shall include confirmation that the design outputs 
meet the design inputs when so connected or interfaced. 
(d)  Records of the verification results, conclusions, and any necessary actions shall be 
maintained.  
 
7.3.7 Design and Development Validation 
(a)  Design and development validation shall be performed, in accordance with planned and 
documented methods, to ensure that the resulting product meets the requirements for the 
intended use or specified application.  
(b)  The organization shall document the validation plan, including the validation methods, 
acceptance criteria, and, where applicable, justification for sample size. 
(c)  Design validation shall be performed on core product. Core product includes initial 
production units, batches, or their equivalents. The rationale for the selection of the 
product used for validation shall be recorded. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
221 
 
(d)  As part of design and development validation, the organization shall perform clinical 
evaluation in accordance with applicable statutory requirement. 
(e)  Medical devices used for clinical evaluation shall not be considered as released for 
customer use. 
(f)  If the intended use requires the medical device to be connected to or interfaced with 
another medical device, the validation shall include confirmation that the product 
requirements for the specified application or intended use are met when so connected or 
interfaced.  
(g)  Validation shall be completed prior to the product’s release for customer use.  
(h)  Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
shall be maintained. 
 
7.3.8 Design and Development Transfer 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for the transfer of design and development 
outputs to manufacturing. These procedures shall ensure that the design and development 
outputs have been verified as suitable for manufacturing before becoming the final 
production specifications and that manufacturing capability can meet product 
requirements.  
(b)  Records of the results and conclusions of the transfer shall be maintained. 
 
7.3.9 Control of Design and Development Changes 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for controlling design and development 
changes. The organization shall determine the significance of changes to the function, 
performance, usability, safety, applicable statutory requirements, and intended use of the 
medical device. 
(b)  Design and development changes shall be identified. Prior to implementation, the 
changes shall be: 
1)  Reviewed;  
2)  Verified;  
3)  Validated, where applicable; 
4)  Approved. 
(c)  The review of design and development changes shall include evaluation of the effects of 
the changes on constituent parts, products in manufacturing or already delivered, risk 
management inputs or outputs, and the production realization processes.  
(d)  Records of the changes, the review of the changes, and any necessary actions shall be 
maintained. 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
222 
 
7.3.10 Design and Development File 
(a)  The organization shall maintain a design and development file for each medical device 
model or product. 
(b)  This file shall contain or reference the records generated to demonstrate conformity with 
the design and development requirements and the records of design and development 
changes. 
 
7.4.  Purchasing 
7.4.1 Purchasing Process 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures to ensure that purchased product conforms 
to specified requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall establish criteria for the evaluation and selection of suppliers. The 
criteria shall be based on: 
1)  The supplier’s ability to provide product that meets the organization’s requirements; 
2)  The supplier’s performance; 
3)  The effect of the purchased product on the quality of the medical device; 
4)  Proportionality to risks associated with the medical device. 
(c)  The organization shall plan monitoring and re-evaluation of suppliers. The performance 
of suppliers in meeting purchased product requirements shall be monitored. The results of 
monitoring shall be provided as input to the supplier re-evaluation process.  
(d)  Non-fulfillment of purchasing requirements shall be addressed with the supplier in 
proportion to the risks associated with the purchased product and compliance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 
(e)  Records of the results of evaluation, selection, monitoring, and re-evaluation of suppliers 
and of any necessary actions arising from these activities shall be maintained. 
 
7.4.2 Purchasing Information 
(a)  Purchasing information shall describe or reference the product to be purchased, 
including, where appropriate:  
1)  Product specifications; 
2)  Requirements for product approval, procedures, processes, and equipment; 
3)  Requirements for the qualification of supplier personnel; 
4)  Quality management system requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall ensure the adequacy of specified purchasing requirements prior to 
communication with the supplier. 
(c)  Purchasing information shall include, where appropriate, a written agreement that the 
supplier notify the organization of any changes to the product prior to implementation if 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
223 
 
such changes may affect the ability of the product to meet specified purchasing 
requirements. 
(d)  The organization shall maintain the relevant purchasing information as documents and 
records to the extent that traceability is required in accordance with Section 7.5.9. 
 
7.4.3 Verification of Purchased Product 
(a)  The organization shall establish and implement the inspection or other activities 
necessary to ensure that purchased product meets specified requirements. The extent of 
verification activities shall be based on the results of supplier evaluation and shall be 
proportional to the risks associated with the purchased product.  
(b)  When the organization becomes aware of any changes to the purchased product, it shall 
determine whether such changes affect the production realization processes or the 
medical device. 
(c)  If the organization or its customer intends to verify the purchased product at the 
supplier’s premises, the organization shall specify in the purchasing information the 
intended verification arrangements and the method of product release.  
(d)  Records of verification shall be maintained. 
 
7.5  Production and Service Provision 
7.5.1 Control of Production and Service Provision 
(a)  Production and service provision shall be planned, carried out, monitored, and controlled 
to ensure that product conforms to specifications. Where appropriate, production control 
shall include, but not be limited to: 
1)  Documentation of procedures and methods for production control; 
2)  Qualification of infrastructure; 
3)  Implementation of monitoring and measurement of process parameters and product 
characteristics; 
4)  Availability and use of monitoring and measuring equipment; 
5)  Implementation of activities specified for labeling and packaging operations; 
6)  Implementation of product release, delivery, and post-delivery activities. 
(b)  The organization shall provide traceability to the extent required in accordance with 
Section 7.5.9 and shall establish and maintain records by medical device or by medical 
device batch that enable identification of the quantity produced and approved for 
distribution. These records shall be verified and approved. 
 
7.5.2 Cleanliness of Product 
 
The organization shall document requirements for cleanliness of product or contamination 
control of product in the following cases. Provided, however, that where the product is cleaned 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
224 
 
in accordance with 1) or 2), the requirements of 6.4.1 do not apply prior to the cleaning 
process. 
1)  Product that is cleaned by the organization prior to sterilization or use; 
2)  Product supplied non-sterile that requires a cleaning process prior to sterilization or use; 
3)  Product that cannot be cleaned prior to sterilization or use and for which cleanliness is of 
significant importance for use; 
4)  Product supplied non-sterile for which cleanliness is of significant importance for use; 
5)  Removal of process agents used during manufacturing from the product. 
 
7.5.3 Installation Activities 
(a)  Where applicable, the organization shall document the acceptance criteria for installation 
of the medical device and for installation verification. 
(b)  Where installation by parties other than the organization or the supplier is permitted by 
the customer, the organization shall provide documented requirements for installation of 
the medical device and for installation verification.  
(c)  Records of installation of the medical device and of installation verification performed by 
the organization or the supplier shall be maintained.  
 
7.5.4 Servicing Activities 
(a)  Where servicing of medical devices is a specified requirement, the organization shall 
document servicing procedures, reference materials, and reference measurements, where 
necessary, for performing servicing activities and for verifying that the specified 
requirements are met.  
(b)  The organization shall analyze records of servicing activities performed by the 
organization or the supplier for the purpose of: 
1)  Determining whether the information should be handled as a complaint; 
2)  Providing, where applicable, input to the improvement processes. 
(c)  Records of servicing activities performed by the organization or the supplier shall be 
maintained.  
 
7.5.5 Specific Requirements for Sterile Medical Devices 
 
The organization shall maintain records of the parameters of the sterilization process used for 
each sterilization batch. Sterilization records shall be traceable to each production batch of the 
medical device. 
 
7.5.6 Validation of Processes for Production and Service Provision 
(a)  The organization shall validate any processes for production and service provision where 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
225 
 
the resulting output cannot be verified by subsequent monitoring or measurement. 
Validation shall include all processes where deficiencies become apparent only after the 
product is used or the service is delivered.  
(b)  Validation shall demonstrate the ability of the processes to achieve the planned results 
consistently.  
(c)  The organization shall document procedures for process validation that include:  
1)  Defined criteria for review and approval of the processes; 
2)  Qualification of equipment and personnel; 
3)  Use of specific methods, procedures, and acceptance criteria; 
4)  Statistical techniques, where applicable, including justification for sample size; 
5)  Requirements for records; 
6)  Revalidation, including the criteria for revalidation; 
7)  Approval of changes to the process. 
(d)  The organization shall document procedures for validation of the application of computer 
software used in production and service provision. Such software applications shall be 
validated prior to initial use and, where appropriate, validated after changes or software 
applications have been made. The specific approach and activities related to software 
validation and revalidation shall be proportionate to the risks associated with the use of 
the software, including the impact on product specifications and product performance.  
(e)  Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
resulting from the validation shall be maintained. 
 
7.5.7 Specific Requirements for Validation of Sterilization and Sterile Packaging Processes 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for validation of the sterilization processes 
and the sterile barrier systems. 
(b)  The sterilization processes and the sterile barrier systems shall be validated prior to initial 
use and, where applicable, prior to changes to the product or the process. 
(c)  Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
resulting from the validation shall be maintained. 
 
7.5.8 Identification 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for product identification and shall identify 
the product by suitable means throughout production realization. 
(b)  The organization shall identify the status of the product with respect to monitoring and 
measurement requirements throughout production realization. The organization shall 
maintain identification of product status to ensure that only product that has passed the 
required tests and inspections, or that has been released under an approved concession, is 
dispatched, used, or installed during all phases of production, storage, installation, and 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
226 
 
servicing. 
(c)  Where required by applicable statutory requirements, the organization shall document a 
system for assigning a unique device identification (UDI) to the medical device. 
(d)  The organization shall document procedures to ensure that medical devices returned to 
the organization are identified and distinguished from conforming product. 
 
7.5.9 Traceability 
7.5.9.1 General Requirements 
 
The organization shall document procedures for traceability. These procedures shall define the 
scope of traceability and the records to be maintained in accordance with applicable statutory 
requirements. 
 
7.5.9.2 Specific Requirements for Medical Devices Subject to Traceability 
(a)  Where components, materials, or working environment conditions used could cause the 
medical device not to meet specified safety and performance requirements, records 
required for traceability shall include records of the components, materials, and working 
environment conditions used. 
(b)  The organization shall require distributors or retailers to maintain records of sales of the 
medical device and to make such records available for investigation to ensure product 
traceability.  
(c)  The organization shall maintain records of the name and address of the consignee for 
released product.  
 
7.5.10 Customer Property 
 
Where customer property provided for use or incorporation into the product is under the 
manufacturer’s control or is being used by the manufacturer, the organization shall identify, 
verify, protect, and safeguard such property. If customer property is lost, damaged, or found to 
be unsuitable for use, this shall be reported to the customer and records shall be maintained. 
  
7.5.11 Preservation of Product 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures to preserve product conformity to 
requirements during processing, storage, handling, and distribution. 
(b)  Preservation shall also apply to components of the medical device. 
(c)  When exposed to expected conditions and hazards during processing, storage, handling, 
and distribution, the organization shall protect the product from alteration, contamination, 
or damage by the following means: 
1)  Designing and constructing appropriate packaging and transportation containers; 
2)  Documenting requirements for any special conditions needed where packaging 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
227 
 
alone does not provide preservation. 
(d)  Where special conditions are necessary, such conditions shall be controlled and recorded.  
 
7.6.  Control of Monitoring and Measuring Equipment 
(a)  The organization shall determine the monitoring and measurement activities to be 
performed, and the monitoring and measuring equipment required, to demonstrate that 
the product meets specified requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall document procedures to ensure that monitoring and measurement 
activities are carried out in a manner consistent with the monitoring and measurement 
requirements. 
(c)  Where necessary to ensure valid results, measuring equipment shall: 
1)  Be calibrated or verified, or both, at specified intervals or prior to use, against 
measurement standards traceable to international or national measurement 
standards. Where no such standards exist, the basis used for calibration or 
verification shall be recorded. 
2)  Be adjusted or re-adjusted as necessary. Such adjustment or re-adjustment shall be 
recorded. 
3)  Be identified to enable the calibration status to be determined;  
4)  Be safeguarded from adjustments that would invalidate the measurement result;  
5)  Be protected from damage and deterioration during handling, maintenance, and 
storage. 
(d)  The organization shall calibrate or verify the equipment in accordance with documented 
procedures.  
(e)  When equipment is found not to conform to requirements, the organization shall assess 
the validity of previous measurement results. The organization shall take appropriate 
action regarding the equipment and any product affected. Records of the results of 
calibration and verification shall be maintained. 
(f)  When computer software is used in monitoring or measuring the requirements specified, 
the organization shall document procedures for validation of the application of computer 
software. The software shall be validated prior to initial use and, where appropriate, 
revalidated after changes to the software or its application. The specific approach and 
activities related to software validation and revalidation shall be proportionate to the risks 
associated with the use of the software, including the impact on product specifications 
and product performance.  
(g)  Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
resulting from the validation shall be maintained. 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
228 
 
8.  Measurement, Analysis and Improvement 
8.1  General Requirements 
(a)  The organization shall plan and implement the monitoring, measurement, analysis, and 
improvement processes needed: 
1)  To demonstrate conformity of the product; 
2)  To ensure conformity of the quality management system; 
3)  To maintain the effectiveness of the quality management system. 
(b)  This shall include determination of the methods, including statistical techniques, and the 
extent of their use.  
 
8.2  Monitoring and Measurement 
8.2.1 Feedback 
(a)  As one of the measurements of the effectiveness of the quality management system, the 
organization shall collect and monitor information relating to whether customer 
requirements have been met.  
(b)  The methods for obtaining and using this information shall be documented. 
(c)  The organization shall document procedures for the feedback process. The feedback 
process shall include provisions for gathering data from production as well as post-
production activities.  
(d)  Information gathered in the feedback process shall be used as potential input to risk 
management in order to monitor and maintain the product requirements and the 
production realization or improvement processes. 
(e)  Where applicable statutory requirements require the organization to collect information 
from post-production activities, review of that information shall be part of the feedback 
process. 
 
8.2.2 Handling of Complaints 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for timely handling of complaints in 
accordance with applicable statutory requirements. These procedures shall include, at a 
minimum, the following requirements and responsibilities: 
1)  Receiving and recording information; 
2)  Evaluating information to determine whether feedback constitutes a complaint; 
3)  Investigating complaints; 
4)  Determining whether the information must be reported to the appropriate regulatory 
authorities;  
5)  Handling complaint-related product; 
6)  Determining the need for correction or corrective action. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
229 
 
(b)  If any complaint is not investigated, the justification for not conducting the investigation 
shall be documented. All results of corrections and corrective actions arising from the 
complaint handling process shall be documented. 
(c)  Where an investigation determines that activities external to the organization caused the 
complaint, relevant information shall be exchanged between the organization and the 
external parties.  
(e)  Records of complaint handling shall be maintained. 
 
8.2.3 Reporting to Regulatory Authorities 
(a)  Where complaints are subject to adverse event reporting or advisory notice reporting in 
accordance with applicable statutory requirements, the organization shall document 
procedures for reporting such complaints to the regulatory authorities.  
(b)  Records of reports submitted to regulatory authorities shall be maintained. 
 
8.2.4 Internal Audit 
(a)  The organization shall conduct internal audits at planned intervals to determine whether 
the quality management system: 
1)  Conforms to the planned and documented arrangements, the requirements of this 
GMP, the quality management system requirements established by the organization, 
and the applicable statutory requirements; 
2)  Is effectively implemented and maintained. 
(b)  The organization shall document procedures that define the responsibilities and 
requirements for planning and conducting audits, and for recording and reporting audit 
results. 
(c)  The audit program shall be planned, taking into consideration the status and importance 
of the processes and areas to be audited, as well as the results of previous audits. The 
audit criteria, scope, frequency, and methods shall be defined and recorded. Auditors 
shall be selected and audits conducted to ensure objectivity and impartiality of the audit 
process. Auditors shall not audit their own work. Records of the audit and audit results, 
including the processes and areas audited and the conclusions reached, shall be 
maintained. 
(d)  Management responsible for the areas being audited shall ensure that necessary 
corrections and corrective actions are taken without undue delay to eliminate detected 
nonconformities and their causes. Follow-up activities shall include the verification of the 
actions taken and the reporting of the results of verification.    
 
8.2.5 Monitoring and Measurement of Processes 
 
The organization shall apply suitable methods for monitoring and, where applicable, 
measurement of the quality management system processes. These methods shall demonstrate 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
230 
 
the ability of the processes to achieve the planned results. When the planned results are not 
achieved, appropriate correction and corrective action shall be taken to ensure conformity of 
the product.  
 
8.2.6 Monitoring and Measurement of Product 
(a)  The organization shall monitor and measure the characteristics of the product to verify 
that product requirements have been met. This shall be carried out at appropriate stages 
of the production realization process in accordance with the planned and documented 
arrangements and documented procedures. 
(b)  Records demonstrating conformity with the acceptance criteria shall be maintained. The 
identity of the person authorizing product release shall be recorded. Where applicable, 
the test equipment used for measurement activities shall be identified and recorded. 
(c)  Product shall not be released, nor shall service be provided, until the planned and 
documented activities have been satisfactorily completed. 
(d)  For medical devices subject to traceability, the organization shall identify and record the 
identity of personnel performing all inspections or tests. 
 
8.3  Control of Nonconforming Product 
8.3.1 General 
(a)  The organization shall ensure that nonconforming product is identified and controlled to 
prevent its unintended use or delivery. The organization shall document procedures that 
define the controls and related responsibilities and authorities for dealing with 
nonconforming product, including identification, documentation, segregation, evaluation, 
and disposition. 
(b)  Evaluation of nonconformities shall include investigation into any external party 
responsible for the nonconformity and determination of whether notification is required. 
(c)  Records of the nonconformity, including the evaluation, investigation, the basis for the 
decisions made, and all actions taken in response, shall be maintained. 
 
8.3.2 Actions in Response to Nonconforming Product Detected Prior to Delivery 
(a)  The organization shall deal with nonconforming product in one or more of the following 
ways:  
1)  Taking action to eliminate the detected nonconformity; 
2)  Taking action to preclude its original intended use or application; 
3)  Authorizing its use, release, or acceptance under concession. 
(b)  The organization shall ensure that concessions are granted only when justified, approved, 
and compliant with applicable statutory requirements. Records shall be maintained to 
identify acceptance under concession and the personnel authorizing the concession. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
231 
 
8.3.3 Actions in Response to Nonconforming Product Detected After Delivery 
(a)  When nonconforming product is detected after delivery or use, the organization shall take 
appropriate action regarding the effects or potential effects of the nonconformity. Records 
of the actions taken shall be maintained. 
(b)  The organization shall document procedures for issuing advisory notices in accordance 
with applicable statutory requirements. These procedures shall be capable of being 
implemented at any time. Records of the actions related to advisory notices shall be 
maintained. 
 
8.3.4 Rework 
(a)  The organization shall perform rework in accordance with documented procedures, 
taking into account the potential adverse effects of rework on the product. These 
procedures shall be subject to the same review and approval as the original procedures.  
(b)  After completion of the rework, the product shall be verified to ensure that it meets the 
applicable acceptance criteria and statutory requirements.  
(c) Records of the rework shall be maintained. 
 
8.4 Analysis of Data 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures to determine, collect, and analyze 
appropriate data to demonstrate the suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of the quality 
management system. These procedures shall include the determination of appropriate 
methods, including statistical techniques and the extent of their application. 
(b)  Analysis of data shall include data generated from the results of monitoring and 
measurement and from other relevant sources, and shall include, at a minimum, the 
following inputs: 
1)  Feedback;  
2)  Conformity to product requirements;  
3)  Process and product characteristics and trends, including opportunities for 
improvement; 
4)  Suppliers; 
5)  Audits; 
6)  Service reports, where applicable. 
(c)  Where analysis of data shows that the quality management system is not suitable, 
adequate, or effective, the organization shall use this analysis as input for improvement as 
required in 8.5.  
(d)  Records of the results of data analysis shall be maintained.  
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
232 
 
8.5  Improvement 
8.5.1 General Requirements 
 
The organization shall identify and implement any changes necessary to ensure and maintain 
the ongoing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of the quality management system, as well 
as the safety and performance of medical devices, through the use of the quality policy, quality 
objectives, audit results, post-marketing surveillance, data analysis, corrective and preventive 
actions, and management review.  
 
8.5.2 Corrective Action 
(a)  The organization shall take action to eliminate the causes of nonconformities in order to 
prevent their recurrence. 
(b)  Corrective actions required shall be taken without undue delay. Corrective actions shall 
be proportionate to the effects of the nonconformities encountered. 
(c)  Documented procedures shall define requirements for:   
1)  Reviewing nonconformities (including customer complaints); 
2)  Determining the causes of nonconformities; 
3)  Evaluating the need for action to ensure that nonconformities do not recur; 
4)  Planning and documenting the required actions and implementing them, including 
document changes where applicable;  
5)  Verifying that corrective actions do not adversely affect the safety and performance 
of the medical device or compliance with applicable statutory requirements;  
6)  Reviewing the effectiveness of the corrective actions taken. 
(d)  Records of all investigation results and actions taken shall be maintained.  
 
8.5.3 Preventive Action 
(a)  The organization shall determine preventive actions to eliminate the causes of potential 
nonconformities in order to prevent their occurrence. Preventive actions shall be 
proportionate to the potential impacts of such issues.  
(b)  Documented procedures shall define requirements for:  
1)  Determining potential nonconformities and their causes; 
2)  Evaluating the need for action to prevent the occurrence of nonconformities; 
3)  Planning and documenting the required actions and determining and implementing 
such actions, including document changes where applicable; 
4)  Verifying that preventive actions do not adversely affect the safety and performance 
of the medical device or compliance with applicable statutory requirements;  
5)  Reviewing the effectiveness of preventive actions taken, where applicable. 
(c)  Records of the results of all investigations and actions taken shall be maintained.  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
233 
 
9. Conformity Recognition Assessment Sheet for Medical Devices 
9.1 General Information 
 
Conformity Recognition Assessment Sheet for Medical Devices 
Name of business 
 
Type of business 
 □ Manufacturing  □ Import 
Business license 
number 
 
Representative 
 
Quality manager 
 
Address 
  
(Telephone:         , Fax:         E-mail:                ) 
Assessment type 
□ Initial assessment   
□ Periodic assessment   
□ Assessment for change   □ Additional assessment 
□ Class 1 medical device      
□ Medical device for investigational use       
□ Medical device for export 
□ Combination medical device 
□ Use of the Medical Device Single Audit Program 
□ Excellent manufacturing site 
 ※ Fill in only if applicable. 
Method of 
assessment 
□ On-site inspection   □ Document review   □ Combined assessment 
Reason for the 
determination of 
the assessment 
type and method 
  
Product 
Product group 
 
Product name / Class 
 
Assessment team 
Affiliation 
Name 
Ministry of Food and Drug 
Safety 
 
Audit Organization 
(Name of Agency) 
 
Assessment date 
.   .   .    -     .   .   . 
Assessment result 
□ Conforming     □ Additional actions required (by  .  .  )     
□ Nonconforming  
In the case of Section 9.4, subparagraph 2, item (a) 2), the results of corrective actions 
shall be submitted by (yyyy.mm.dd). 
This document represents the result of the conformity assessment conducted pursuant to Article 6 of the 
Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices. 
                                   Year       Month       Day  
 
                               Ministry of Food and Drug Safety:                   Seal 
                               Audit Organization:                   Seal 
                                 Representative:                   Seal 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
234 
 
9.2 Information on Assessment Location 
 
Name of business 
 
□ Corporation 
□ Individual 
License number 
 
Representative 
 
Quality manager 
 
Name/address of 
manufacturing site 
subject to assessment 
 Legal manufacturer:  
 (Name) 
 (Location) 
 Manufacturer:  
 (Name) 
 (Location) 
Facility information 
of the manufacturing 
site 
  
Contact information 
of the responsible 
review department 
 
Number of 
employees subject to 
assessment 
 
Working hours 
(Shift hours, etc.) 
 
Status of 
related certifications 
Certification body Certification criteria 
Scope of 
certification 
Expiration date 
 
 
 
 
On-site inspection 
date 
Year month day - year month day 
Information on 
previous assessment 
(Fill in only if 
applicable) 
Assessment date 
 
Audit organization 
 
Auditor(s) 
 
Assessment criteria and 
scope 
 
Assessment result 
 
Action required 
 
Remarks 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
235 
 
9.3.1 Detailed Assessment Contents  
(Where the Medical Device Single Audit Program Is Not Applied) 
 
Category 
Details 
Noteworthy findings during 
assessment 
 
Excluded items 
 
Reason for exclusion 
 
Points to verify regarding the 
interrelationships of the quality 
management system 
 
Assessment area 
Assessment details 
1.  Quality Management System  
2.  Management Responsibility 
 
3.  Resource Management 
 
4.  Production Realization 
 
5.  Measurement, Analysis and 
Improvement 
 
6.  Assessment result 
 
Required actions 
No. 
Relevant 
clause 
Required actions 
1 
 
 
2 
 
 
3 
 
 
4 
 
 
5 
 
 
Assessment 
description  
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
236 
 
9.3.2. Detailed Assessment Contents  
(Where the Medical Device Single Audit Program Is Applied) 
 
Category 
Assessment details 
Noteworthy findings during 
assessment 
 
Assessment information 
Audit organization, assessment start date, assessment end date, assessment 
duration (number of assessment days), assessment report number, assessment 
type (initial/renewal), etc. 
(refer to Sections 1 and 3 of the MDSAP Assessment Results) 
Information on the 
manufacturing site subject to 
assessment 
Name of the manufacturing site subject to assessment, information on the assessed 
organization, detailed address of the manufacturing site, relationship with the product 
subject to assessment, etc. (Refer to Sections 2 through 8) 
Excluded items and reasons 
Refer to section 9 
Points to verify regarding the 
interrelationships of the 
quality management system 
Roles performed by the manufacturing site subject to assessment, 
manufacturing processes conducted at the site, etc.  
(refer to section 4) 
Assessment area 
Assessment details 
1. MDSAP Assessment 
Results 
※ The review results for Sections 4 through 8 of Annex 2, item (a) of Article 7 (1) 3 
shall be indicated in the assessment table below. 
   (The assessment results and determination criteria shall be applied in accordance 
with the same criteria as those in 9.4 Assessment Sheet) 
Category 
Scope of assessment 
Assessment result 
A 
B 
C 
D 
Section 11 
11.1 Process: Management 
 
 
 
 
11.2 Process: Medical Device Approval and 
Manufacturing Site Registration 
 
 
 
 
11.3 Process: Measurement, Analysis and 
Improvement 
 
 
 
 
11.4 Process: Adverse Event Reporting and Issuance 
of Advisory Notices for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
 
11.5 Process: Design and Development 
 
 
 
 
11.6 Process: Production and Service Controls 
 
 
 
 
11.7 Process: Purchasing 
 
 
 
 
11.8 Other Findings  
 
 
 
 
Section 12 
Nonconformities (Identification of Nonconformities 
and Supporting Evidence) 
 
 
 
 
Section 14 
Follow-up Actions on Previous Nonconformities  
 
 
 
 
2. Device Master Record 
(DMR) 
Adequacy of the Device Master Records (DMRs) for core product of each 
product group among domestically manufactured or imported products 
(Article 7 (1) 3 (b))  
3. Requirements under the 
Medical Device Act 
Conformity with the regulatory requirements under the Medical Device Act  
(Article 7 (1) 3 (c))  
4. Assessment Result 
Overall Opinion of the Assessment Team 
Required Actions 
No. 
Relevant 
clause 
Required actions 
1 
 
 
2 
 
 
Assessment 
description 
 
※ To be completed for conformity recognition assessments using the Medical Device Single Audit Program (9.4 
Assessment Sheet omitted) 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
237 
 
9.4 Assessment Sheet 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
4. Quality 
Management 
System 
4.1 General 
Requirements 
4.1.1 
(a) The organization shall document its quality management 
system in accordance with the requirements of this GMP and 
applicable statutory requirements, and shall maintain the 
effectiveness of the quality management system.  
(b) The organization shall establish, implement, and maintain 
specific requirements, procedures, activities, or methods of 
operation that must be documented pursuant to this GMP and 
applicable statutory requirements.  
(c) The organization shall document the roles required to perform 
in accordance with applicable statutory requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.2  
The organization shall implement the following: 
1)  Determine the processes necessary for the quality management 
system, taking into account the roles performed by the 
organization, and apply those processes throughout the 
organization; 
2)  Apply a risk-based approach to the appropriate management 
of processes required for the quality management system; 
3)  Determine the sequence and interaction of those processes. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.3 
For each processes of the quality management system, the 
organization shall perform the following: 
1)  Determine the criteria and methods necessary to ensure the 
effective operation and control of the processes; 
2)  Ensure the availability of information and resources necessary 
to support the operation and monitoring of the processes; 
3)  Take necessary actions to achieve planned results and maintain 
the effectiveness of the processes; 
4)  Monitor such processes and, where applicable, measure and 
analyze them; 
5)  Prepare and maintain the records necessary to demonstrate 
conformity with this GMP and compliance with applicable 
statutory requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.4 
The organization shall control quality management system 
processes in conformity with this GMP and applicable 
statutory requirements. Where such processes are to be 
changed, the organization shall perform the following: 
1)  Evaluate whether the change to the process affects the quality 
management system; 
2)  Evaluate whether the change to the process affects the medical 
devices produced under the quality management system; 
3)  Control such matters in accordance with this GMP and 
applicable statutory requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.5 
(a) Where the organization outsources any process that affects 
product conformity requirements, it shall ensure that such 
processes are monitored and controlled.  
(b) The organization shall retain responsibility for ensuring 
compliance with this GMP, customer requirements, and 
applicable statutory requirements for outsourced processes. 
(c) Control of outsourced processes shall be proportionate to the 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
238 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
associated risks and to the capability of the contracted supplier 
to meet the requirements under paragraph 7.4, and shall 
include a written quality agreement. 
4.1.6 
(a) The organization shall document procedures for the validation 
of computer software used in the quality management system.  
(b) Such software shall be validated prior to initial use, and where 
applicable, shall also be validated following any changes to 
the software or its application. 
(c) Specific approaches and activities related to software 
validation and revalidation shall be proportionate to the risks 
associated with the use of the software.  
(d) Records of these activities shall be maintained.   
 
 
 
 
 
4.2 
Documentation 
Requirements 
4.2.1 General 
Requirements 
Documentation of the quality management system shall 
include the following: 
1)  Documented quality policy and quality objectives; 
2)  Quality manual; 
3)  Documented procedures and records required by this GMP; 
4)  Documents, including records, determined by the organization 
to be necessary to ensure the effective planning, operation, and 
control of its processes; 
5)  Any additional documentation required by applicable statutory 
requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2.2 Quality 
Manual 
(a) The organization shall document a quality manual that 
includes the following: 
1)  The scope of the quality management system, including 
details of any exclusions or non-applications and their 
justification; 
2) Documented procedures established for the quality 
management system and reference to such documents; 
3)  A description of the interactions between processes of the 
quality management system. 
(b) The quality manual shall briefly specify the structure of the 
documents used in the quality management system. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2.3 Medical 
Device File 
(a) For each medical device model or item, the organization shall 
establish and maintain one or more files containing or 
referencing documents generated to demonstrate conformity 
with this GMP and compliance with applicable statutory 
requirements. 
(b) The contents of the medical device file shall include, but not 
be limited to, the following:  
1)  A general description of the medical device, including its 
intended use/purpose and all instructions for use; 
2)  Product specifications; 
3)  Specifications and procedures for manufacturing, 
packaging, storage, handling, and distribution; 
4)  Measurement and monitoring procedures; 
5) Installation requirements, where applicable; 
6)  Servicing procedures, where applicable. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2.4 Control of (a) Documents required by the quality management system shall 
be controlled. Records are a special type of document and 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
239 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
Documents 
shall be controlled in accordance with Section 4.2.5.  
(b) Procedures necessary to control the following shall be 
documented: 
1)  Review and approval of documents for adequacy prior to 
issuance; 
2)  Review, update, and re-approval of documents as 
necessary; 
3)  Ensure that changes to documents and the current revision 
status are identified; 
4)  Ensure that applicable versions of documents are available 
at points of use;  
5)  Ensure that documents remain legible and readily 
identifiable;  
6)  Ensure that documents of external origin determined by 
the organization to be necessary for the planning and 
operation of the quality management system are identified 
and their distribution controlled; 
7)  Prevent deterioration or loss of documents; 
8) Preventing the unintended use of obsolete documents and 
applying appropriate identification if they are retained for 
any purpose. 
(c) The organization shall ensure that document changes are 
reviewed and approved by the original approving authority or 
other authorized personnel who have access to the background 
information on which the organization’s decisions are based. 
(d) The organization shall retain at least one copy of obsolete 
controlled documents for a period corresponding to the 
product’s life cycle, which shall be no less than the retention 
period required for records. 
4.2.5 Control of 
Records 
(a) Records shall be established and maintained to demonstrate the 
effective operation of the quality management system and 
conformity to requirements.  
(b) The organization shall document procedures defining the 
controls needed for the identification, storage, security and 
integrity, retrieval, retention period, and disposition of records. 
(c) The organization shall establish and implement methods to 
protect personal health information contained in records in 
accordance with applicable statutory requirements. 
(d) All records shall be easily legible, readily identifiable, and 
retrievable. Any changes to records shall remain identifiable. 
(e) The organization shall retain records for a period 
corresponding to the product’s life cycle. This period shall be 
at least five years from the date of manufacture and at least 
two years after release to the market. 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Management 
Responsibility 
5.1 
Management 
Commitment 
Top management shall demonstrate its commitment to the 
development and implementation of the quality 
management system and to maintaining its effectiveness 
through the following:  
1)  Communicate the importance of fulfilling customer 
requirements and applicable statutory requirements with the 
organization; 
2)  Establish the quality policy; 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
240 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
3)  Ensure that quality objectives are established; 
4)  Conduct management reviews; 
5)  Ensure the availability of resources. 
5.2 Customer 
Focus 
Top management shall ensure that customer requirements 
and applicable statutory requirements are determined and 
fulfilled. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3 Quality 
Policy 
Top management shall ensure that the quality policy: 
1)  Is appropriate to the purpose of the organization; 
2)  Includes a commitment to comply with requirements and to 
maintain the effectiveness of the quality management system; 
3)  Provides a framework for establishing and reviewing quality 
objectives; 
4)  Is communicated and understood within the organization; 
5)  Is reviewed for continuing suitability. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.4 Planning 
5.4.1 Quality 
Objectives 
(a) Top management shall ensure that the quality objectives 
include the necessary elements to meet applicable statutory 
requirements and product requirements, and that they are 
established at relevant functions and levels within the 
organization.  
(b) The quality objectives shall be measurable and shall be 
consistent with the quality policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.4.2 Planning 
of the Quality 
Management 
System 
Top management shall ensure the following: 
1)  The planning of the quality management system is carried out 
not only to achieve the quality objectives but also to meet the 
requirements of Section 4.1;  
2)  The integrity of the quality management system is maintained 
when changes to the quality management system are planned 
and implemented.  
 
 
 
 
 
5.5 
Responsibility, 
Authority, and 
Communication 
5.5.1 
Responsibility 
and Authority 
(a) Top management shall ensure that responsibilities and 
authorities within the organization are defined, documented, 
and communicated. 
(b) Top management shall document the interrelationships of all 
personnel who manage, perform, and verify work affecting 
quality, and shall ensure the authority and independence 
necessary to perform such work. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.5.2 Quality 
Manager 
Top management shall appoint a person within the 
organization who, irrespective of other responsibilities, has 
the authority and responsibility to perform the following: 
1)  Ensure that the processes necessary for the quality 
management system are documented; 
2)  Report to top management on the performance and 
effectiveness of the quality management system and on the 
need for improvement; 
3)  Ensure that awareness of applicable statutory requirements 
and quality management system requirements is promoted 
throughout the organization. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.5.3 Internal 
Communication 
Top management shall ensure that appropriate 
communication processes are established within the 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
241 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
organization and that communication regarding the 
effectiveness of the quality management system is carried 
out. 
5.6 
Management 
Review 
5.6.1 General 
Requirements 
(a) The organization shall document the procedure for 
management review.  
(b) Top management shall review the quality management system 
at documented planned intervals to ensure its continuing 
suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness.  
(c) Management reviews shall include an evaluation of the need 
for changes and opportunities for improvement in the quality 
management system, including the quality policy and quality 
objectives. 
(d) Records of management reviews shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6.2 Review 
Inputs 
The inputs to management review shall include, but not be 
limited to, the following: 
1)  Feedback; 
2)  Handling of complaints; 
3)  Reports to regulatory authorities; 
4)  Audits; 
5)  Monitoring and measurement of processes; 
6)  Monitoring and measurement of product; 
7)  Corrective action; 
8)  Preventive action; 
9)  Follow-up actions from previous management reviews; 
10) Changes that could affect the quality management system; 
11) Recommendations for improvement; 
12) New or revised applicable statutory requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6.3 Review 
Outputs 
The outputs of management review shall be recorded and 
shall include decisions and actions related to the reviewed 
inputs and the following: 
1)  Improvements needed to maintain the suitability, adequacy, 
and effectiveness of the quality management system and its 
processes; 
2)  Improvement of product related to customer requirements; 
3)  Changes needed to meet new or revised applicable statutory 
requirements; 
4)  Resource needs. 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Resource 
Management 
6.1 Provision of 
Resources 
The organization shall determine and provide the resources 
needed for: 
1)  Implementing the quality management system and 
maintaining its effectiveness; 
2)  Meeting applicable regulatory requirements and customer 
requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 Human 
Resources 
(a) Personnel performing work affecting product quality shall be 
competent on the basis of appropriate education, training, 
skills, and experience.  
(b) The organization shall establish the competencies required of 
personnel, provide the necessary training, and establish and 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
242 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
document processes to ensure personnel awareness. 
(c) The organization shall perform the following:  
1)  Determine the competencies needed for personnel 
performing work that affects product quality;  
2)  Provide training or take other actions to achieve or 
maintain the necessary competencies;  
3)  Evaluate the effectiveness of the actions taken; 
4) Ensure that personnel are aware of the relevance and 
importance of their activities and how they contribute to 
the achievement of quality objectives;  
5)  Maintain appropriate records of education, training, skills, 
and experience. 
6.3 
Infrastructure 
(a) The organization shall document the infrastructure 
requirements necessary to ensure conformity to product 
requirements, prevent product mix-ups, and ensure orderly 
handling. Where applicable, infrastructure includes: 
1)  Buildings, workspace, and associated facilities; 
2)  Process equipment (hardware and software); 
3)  Supporting services such as transport, communication, or 
information systems. 
(b) Where maintenance activities of infrastructure, or lack thereof, 
may affect product quality, the organization shall document 
the maintenance requirements, including maintenance 
intervals. Where applicable, these requirements shall apply to 
equipment used for manufacturing, work environment control, 
and monitoring and measurement. 
(c) Records of such maintenance activities shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4 Work 
Environment 
and 
Contamination 
Control 
6.4.1 Work 
Environment 
(a) The organization shall document the requirements for the work 
environment necessary to ensure conformity to product 
requirements. 
(b) Where work environment conditions may have an adverse 
effect on product quality, the organization shall document the 
requirements for the work environment and procedures for 
monitoring and controlling such conditions. 
(c) The organization shall perform the following requirements: 
1)  Where personnel may come into contact with the product 
or the work environment in a manner that could affect the 
safety or performance of medical devices, requirements 
for personnel health, cleanliness, and clothing shall be 
documented. 
2)  All personnel who work temporarily under special 
environmental conditions shall be competent or shall be 
supervised by competent personnel. 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4.2 
Contamination 
Control 
(a) Where applicable, the organization shall plan and document 
methods for controlling products that are contaminated or 
potentially contaminated, in order to prevent contamination of 
the work environment, personnel, or products.  
(b) For sterilized medical devices, the organization shall document 
requirements for contamination control related to 
microorganisms or particulates and shall maintain the required 
cleanliness during assembly or packaging processes. 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
243 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
7. Production 
Realization 
7.1 Planning of 
Production 
Realization 
(a) The organization shall plan and develop the processes needed 
for production realization. Planning of production realization 
shall be consistent with the other process requirements of the 
quality management system. 
(b) The organization shall document one or more processes for 
risk management during production realization, and records of 
risk management activities shall be maintained.  
(c) Where applicable, the organization shall determine the 
following in planning production realization:  
1)  Quality objectives and requirements for the product; 
2)  The need to establish and document processes, and to 
ensure the availability of specific resources for the 
product, including infrastructure and work environment;  
3)  Specific verification, validation, monitoring, 
measurement, testing and inspection, handling, storage, 
distribution, and traceability activities required for the 
product, along with the criteria for product acceptance; 
4)  Records necessary to demonstrate that production 
realization processes and their outputs meet requirements. 
(d) The outputs of such planning shall be documented in a form 
appropriate to the organization’s method of operation. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2 Customer-
Related 
Processes 
7.2.1 
Determination 
of 
Requirements 
Related to the 
Product 
The organization shall determine the following:  
1)  Requirements specified by the customer, including those 
related to delivery and post-delivery activities; 
2)  Requirements not stated by the customer but necessary for 
known specified or intended use;  
3) Applicable statutory requirements related to the product; 
4)  User training necessary to ensure stated performance and safe 
use of the medical device; 
5)  Any additional requirements determined by the organization. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2.2 Review of 
Requirements 
Related to the 
Product 
(a) The organization shall review the requirements related to the 
product. This review shall be conducted prior to the 
organization’s commitment to supply the product to the 
customer.  
1)  The requirements for the product are defined and 
documented; 
2)  Any contract or order requirements differing from those 
previously expressed are resolved; 
3)  Applicable statutory requirements are met; 
4)  User training determined under Section 7.2.1 is feasible or 
planned to be feasible; 
5)  The organization has the capability to meet the defined 
requirements. 
(b) Records of the results of the review and any actions arising 
from the review shall be maintained. 
(c) Where the customer does not provide documented 
requirements, the organization shall confirm the customer 
requirements prior to acceptance.  
(d) When product requirements are changed, the organization shall 
amend the relevant documents and ensure that relevant 
personnel are made aware of the changed requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
244 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
7.2.3 
Communication 
(a) The organization shall plan and document the methods for 
communicating with customers regarding: 
1)  Product information; 
2)  Handling inquiries, including amendments, contracts, or 
orders; 
3)  Customer feedback, including complaints; 
4)  Advisory notices. 
(b) The organization shall communicate with regulatory 
authorities in accordance with applicable statutory 
requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3. Design and 
Development 
7.3.1 General  
The organization shall document procedures for design and 
development. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.2 Design 
and 
Development 
Planning 
(a) The organization shall plan and control the design and 
development of the product. Where applicable, the design and 
development plan shall be maintained and updated as design 
and development progress. 
(b) The organization shall document the following in the course of 
design and development planning:  
1)  The stages of design and development; 
2)  The reviews required at each stage of design and 
development;  
3)  The verification, validation, and design transfer activities 
appropriate to each stage of design and development; 
4)  The responsibilities and authorities for design and 
development; 
5)  The methods to ensure traceability between design and 
development inputs and outputs; 
6)  The necessary resources, including personnel competence. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.3 Design 
and 
Development 
Inputs 
(a) The organization shall determine and maintain records of 
inputs relating to product requirements. These inputs shall 
include:  
1)  Functional, performance, usability, and safety 
requirements necessary for the intended use; 
2)  Applicable statutory requirements and standards; 
3)  Applicable risk management outputs; 
4)  Information derived from previous similar designs, where 
applicable; 
5)  Other requirements essential for the design and 
development of the product and process. 
(b) Such inputs shall be reviewed and approved for adequacy.  
(c) Product requirements shall be clear, unambiguous, verifiable 
or validatable, and shall not conflict with other requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.4 Design 
and 
Development 
Outputs 
(a) The design and development outputs shall: 
1)  Meet the design and development input requirements; 
2)  Provide appropriate information for purchasing, 
production, and service provision; 
3)  Include or reference the criteria for product acceptance;   
4)  Specify the characteristics of the product that are essential 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
245 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
for safe and proper use. 
(b) The outputs of the design and development process shall be 
provided in a form that enables verification against the design 
and development inputs and shall be approved prior to release.  
(c) Records of the design and development outputs shall be 
maintained. 
7.3.5 Design 
and 
Development 
Review 
(a) Systematic reviews of the design and development shall be 
conducted at appropriate stages in accordance with planned 
and documented methods for the purpose of:  
1)  Evaluating the ability of the design and development 
results to meet the requirements; 
2)  Identifying and proposing any necessary actions. 
(b) Personnel participating in such reviews shall include not only 
the persons responsible for the design and development stage 
under review, but also other relevant experts. 
(c) Records of the results of the reviews and any necessary actions 
shall be maintained and shall include identification of the 
design under review, the personnel participating in the review, 
and the dates of the review.  
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.6 Design 
and 
Development 
Verification 
(a) Design and development verification shall be performed in 
accordance with planned and documented methods to ensure 
that the design and development outputs meet the input 
requirements.  
(b) The organization shall document the verification plan, 
including the verification methods, acceptance criteria, and, 
where applicable, statistical techniques with justification for 
sample size. 
(c) If the intended use requires the medical device to be connected 
to or interfaced with another medical device, the verification 
shall include confirmation that the design outputs meet the 
design inputs when so connected or interfaced. 
(d) Records of the verification results, conclusions, and any 
necessary actions shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.7 Design 
and 
Development 
Validation 
(a) Design and development validation shall be performed, in 
accordance with planned and documented methods, to ensure 
that the resulting product meets the requirements for the 
intended use or specified application.  
(b) The organization shall document the validation plan, including 
the validation methods, acceptance criteria, and, where 
applicable, justification for sample size. 
(c) Design validation shall be performed on core product. Core 
product includes initial production units, batches, or their 
equivalents. The rationale for the selection of the product used 
for validation shall be recorded. 
(d) As part of design and development validation, the organization 
shall perform clinical evaluation in accordance with applicable 
statutory requirement. 
(e) Medical devices used for clinical evaluation shall not be 
considered as released for customer use. 
(f) If the intended use requires the medical device to be connected 
to or interfaced with another medical device, the validation 
shall include confirmation that the product requirements for 
the specified application or intended use are met when so 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
246 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
connected or interfaced.  
(g) Validation shall be completed prior to the product’s release for 
customer use.  
(h) Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, 
and any necessary actions shall be maintained. 
7.3.8 Design 
and 
Development 
Transfer 
(a) The organization shall document procedures for the transfer of 
design and development outputs to manufacturing. These 
procedures shall ensure that the design and development 
outputs have been verified as suitable for manufacturing 
before becoming the final production specifications and that 
manufacturing capability can meet product requirements.  
(b) Records of the results and conclusions of the transfer shall be 
maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.9 Control of 
Design and 
Development 
Changes 
(a) The organization shall document procedures for controlling 
design and development changes. The organization shall 
determine the significance of changes to the function, 
performance, usability, safety, applicable statutory 
requirements, and intended use of the medical device. 
(b) Design and development changes shall be identified. Prior to 
implementation, the changes shall be: 
1)  Reviewed;  
2)  Verified;  
3)  Validated, where applicable; 
4)  Approved. 
(c) The review of design and development changes shall include 
evaluation of the effects of the changes on constituent parts, 
products in manufacturing or already delivered, risk 
management inputs or outputs, and the production realization 
processes.  
(d) Records of the changes, the review of the changes, and any 
necessary actions shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.10 Design 
and 
Development 
File 
(a) The organization shall maintain a design and development file 
for each medical device model or product. 
(b) This file shall contain or reference the records generated to 
demonstrate conformity with the design and development 
requirements and the records of design and development 
changes. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.4. Purchasing 
7.4.1 
Purchasing 
Process 
(a) The organization shall document procedures to ensure that 
purchased product conforms to specified requirements. 
(b) The organization shall establish criteria for the evaluation and 
selection of suppliers. The criteria shall be based on: 
1)  The supplier’s ability to provide product that meets the 
organization’s requirements; 
2)  The supplier’s performance; 
3)  The effect of the purchased product on the quality of the 
medical device; 
4)  Proportionality to risks associated with the medical 
device. 
(c) The organization shall plan monitoring and re-evaluation of 
suppliers. The performance of suppliers in meeting purchased 
product requirements shall be monitored. The results of 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
247 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
monitoring shall be provided as input to the supplier re-
evaluation process.  
(d) Non-fulfillment of purchasing requirements shall be addressed 
with the supplier in proportion to the risks associated with the 
purchased product and compliance with applicable statutory 
requirements. 
(e) Records of the results of evaluation, selection, monitoring, and 
re-evaluation of suppliers and of any necessary actions arising 
from these activities shall be maintained. 
7.4.2 
Purchasing 
Information 
(a) Purchasing information shall describe or reference the product 
to be purchased, including, where appropriate:  
1)  Product specifications; 
2)  Requirements for product approval, procedures, processes, 
and equipment; 
3)  Requirements for the qualification of supplier personnel; 
4)  Quality management system requirements. 
(b) The organization shall ensure the adequacy of specified 
purchasing requirements prior to communication with the 
supplier. 
(c) Purchasing information shall include, where appropriate, a 
written agreement that the supplier notify the organization of 
any changes to the product prior to implementation if such 
changes may affect the ability of the product to meet specified 
purchasing requirements. 
(d) The organization shall maintain the relevant purchasing 
information as documents and records to the extent that 
traceability is required in accordance with Section 7.5.9. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.4.3 
Verification of 
Purchased 
Product 
(a) The organization shall establish and implement the inspection 
or other activities necessary to ensure that purchased product 
meets specified requirements. The extent of verification 
activities shall be based on the results of supplier evaluation 
and shall be proportional to the risks associated with the 
purchased product.  (b) When the organization becomes aware 
of any changes to the purchased product, it shall determine 
whether such changes affect the production realization 
processes or the medical device. 
(c) If the organization or its customer intends to verify the 
purchased product at the supplier’s premises, the organization 
shall specify in the purchasing information the intended 
verification arrangements and the method of product release.  
(d) Records of verification shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5 Production 
and Service 
Provision 
7.5.1 Control of 
Production and 
Service 
Provision 
(a) Production and service provision shall be planned, carried out, 
monitored, and controlled to ensure that product conforms to 
specifications. Where appropriate, production control shall 
include, but not be limited to: 
1)  Documentation of procedures and methods for production 
control; 
2)  Qualification of infrastructure; 
3)  Implementation of monitoring and measurement of 
process parameters and product characteristics; 
4)  Availability and use of monitoring and measuring 
equipment; 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
248 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
5)  Implementation of activities specified for labeling and 
packaging operations; 
6)  Implementation of product release, delivery, and post-
delivery activities. 
(b) The organization shall provide traceability to the extent 
required in accordance with Section 7.5.9 and shall establish 
and maintain records by medical device or by medical device 
batch that enable identification of the quantity produced and 
approved for distribution. These records shall be verified and 
approved. 
7.5.2 
Cleanliness of 
Product 
The organization shall document requirements for 
cleanliness of product or contamination control of product 
in the following cases. Provided, however, that where the 
product is cleaned in accordance with 1) or 2), the 
requirements of 6.4.1 do not apply prior to the cleaning 
process. 
1)  Product that is cleaned by the organization prior to 
sterilization or use; 
2)  Product supplied non-sterile that requires a cleaning process 
prior to sterilization or use; 
3)  Product that cannot be cleaned prior to sterilization or use and 
for which cleanliness is of significant importance for use; 
4)  Product supplied non-sterile for which cleanliness is of 
significant importance for use; 
5)  Removal of process agents used during manufacturing from 
the product. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.3 
Installation 
Activities 
(a) Where applicable, the organization shall document the 
acceptance criteria for installation of the medical device and 
for installation verification. 
(b) Where installation by parties other than the organization or the 
supplier is permitted by the customer, the organization shall 
provide documented requirements for installation of the 
medical device and for installation verification.  
(c) Records of installation of the medical device and of 
installation verification performed by the organization or the 
supplier shall be maintained.  
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.4 Servicing 
Activities 
(a) Where servicing of the medical device is a specified 
requirement, the organization shall document, where 
necessary, servicing procedures, reference materials, and 
reference measurements for performing servicing activities 
and for verifying that the specified requirements are met.  
(b) The organization shall analyze records of servicing activities 
performed by the organization or the supplier for the purpose 
of: 
1)  Determining whether the information should be handled 
as a complaint; 
2)  Providing, where applicable, input to the improvement 
processes. 
(c) Records of servicing activities performed by the organization 
or the supplier shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.5 Specific 
The organization shall maintain records of the parameters of the 
sterilization process used for each sterilization batch. Sterilization  
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
249 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
Requirements 
for Sterile 
Medical 
Devices 
records shall be traceable to each production batch of the medical 
device. 
7.5.6 Validation 
of Processes for 
Production and 
Service 
Provision 
(a) The organization shall validate any processes for production 
and service provision where the resulting output cannot be 
verified by subsequent monitoring or measurement. Validation 
shall include all processes where deficiencies become apparent 
only after the product is used or the service is delivered.  
(b) Validation shall demonstrate the ability of the processes to 
achieve the planned results consistently.  
(c) The organization shall document procedures for process 
validation that include:  
1)  Defined criteria for review and approval of the processes; 
2)  the suitability of equipment and personnel; 
3)  the use of specific methods, procedures, and acceptance 
criteria; 
4)  Statistical techniques, where applicable, including 
justification for sample size; 
5)  Requirements for records; 
6)  Revalidation, including the criteria for revalidation; 
7)  Approval of changes to the process. 
(d) The organization shall document procedures for validation of 
the application of computer software used in production and 
service provision. Such software applications shall be 
validated prior to initial use and, where appropriate, validated 
after changes or software applications have been made. The 
specific approach and activities related to software validation 
and revalidation shall be proportionate to the risks associated 
with the use of the software, including the impact on product 
specifications and product performance.  
(e) Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, 
and any necessary actions resulting from the validation shall 
be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.7 Specific 
Requirements 
for Validation 
of Sterilization 
and Sterile 
Packaging 
Processes 
(a) The organization shall document procedures for validation of 
the sterilization processes and the sterile barrier systems. 
(b) The sterilization processes and the sterile barrier systems shall 
be validated prior to initial use and, where applicable, prior to 
changes to the product or the process. 
(c) Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, 
and any necessary actions resulting from the validation shall 
be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.8 
Identification 
(a) The organization shall document procedures for product 
identification and shall identify the product by suitable means 
throughout production realization. 
(b) The organization shall identify the status of the product with 
respect to monitoring and measurement requirements 
throughout production realization. The organization shall 
maintain identification of product status to ensure that only 
product that has passed the required tests and inspections, or 
that has been released under an approved concession, is 
dispatched, used, or installed during all phases of production, 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
250 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
storage, installation, and servicing. 
(c) Where required by applicable statutory requirements, the 
organization shall document a system for assigning a unique 
device identification (UDI) to the medical device. 
(d) The organization shall document procedures to ensure that 
medical devices returned to the organization are identified and 
distinguished from conforming product. 
7.5.9 
Traceability 
7.5.9.1 General 
Requirements 
The organization shall document procedures for traceability. 
These procedures shall define the scope of traceability and 
the records to be maintained in accordance with applicable 
statutory requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.9.2 Specific 
Requirements 
for Medical 
Devices 
Subject to 
Traceability 
(a) Where components, materials, or working environment 
conditions used could cause the medical device not to meet 
specified safety and performance requirements, records 
required for traceability shall include records of the 
components, materials, and working environment conditions 
used. 
(b) The organization shall require distributors or retailers to 
maintain records of sales of the medical device and to make 
such records available for investigation to ensure product 
traceability.  
(c) The organization shall maintain records of the name and 
address of the consignee for released product.   
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.10 
Customer 
Property 
Where customer property provided for use or incorporation 
into the product is under the manufacturer’s control or is 
being used by the manufacturer, the organization shall 
identify, verify, protect, and safeguard such property. If 
customer property is lost, damaged, or found to be 
unsuitable for use, this shall be reported to the customer and 
records shall be maintained.  
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.11 
Preservation of 
Product 
(a) The organization shall document procedures to preserve 
product conformity to requirements during processing, 
storage, handling, and distribution. 
(b) Preservation shall also apply to components of the medical 
device. 
(c) When exposed to expected conditions and hazards during 
processing, storage, handling, and distribution, the 
organization shall protect the product from alteration, 
contamination, or damage by the following means: 
1)  Designing and constructing appropriate packaging and 
transportation containers; 
2)  Documenting requirements for any special conditions 
needed where packaging alone does not provide 
preservation. 
(d) Where special conditions are necessary, such conditions shall 
be controlled and recorded.  
 
 
 
 
 
7.6 Control of 
Monitoring and 
Measuring 
Equipment 
(a) The organization shall determine the monitoring and 
measurement activities to be performed, and the monitoring 
and measuring equipment required, to demonstrate that the 
product meets specified requirements. 
(b) The organization shall document procedures to ensure that 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
251 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
monitoring and measurement activities are carried out in a 
manner consistent with the monitoring and measurement 
requirements. 
(c) Where necessary to ensure valid results, measuring equipment 
shall: 
1)  Be calibrated or verified, or both, at specified intervals or 
prior to use, against measurement standards traceable to 
international or national measurement standards; Where 
no such standards exist, the basis used for calibration or 
verification shall be recorded. 
2)  Be adjusted or re-adjusted as necessary. Such adjustment 
or re-adjustment shall be recorded.  
3)  Be identified to enable the calibration status to be 
determined;  
4)  Be safeguarded from adjustments that would invalidate 
the measurement result;  
5)  Be protected from damage and deterioration during 
handling, maintenance, and storage. 
(d) The organization shall calibrate or verify the equipment in 
accordance with documented procedures.  
(e) When equipment is found not to conform to requirements, the 
organization shall assess the validity of previous measurement 
results. The organization shall take appropriate action 
regarding the equipment and any product affected. Records of 
the results of calibration and verification shall be maintained. 
(f)  When computer software is used in monitoring or measuring 
the requirements specified, the organization shall document 
procedures for validation of the application of computer 
software. The software shall be validated prior to initial use 
and, where appropriate, revalidated after changes to the 
software or its application. The specific approach and 
activities related to software validation and revalidation shall 
be proportionate to the risks associated with the use of the 
software, including the impact on product specifications and 
product performance.   
(g) Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, 
and any necessary actions resulting from the validation shall 
be maintained. 
8. 
Measurement, 
Analysis and 
Improvement 
8.1 General 
Requirements 
(a) The organization shall plan and implement the monitoring, 
measurement, analysis, and improvement processes needed: 
1)  To demonstrate conformity of the product; 
2)  To ensure conformity of the quality management system; 
3)  To maintain the effectiveness of the quality management 
system. 
(b) This shall include determination of the methods, including 
statistical techniques, and the extent of their use.  
 
 
 
 
 
8.2 Monitoring 
and 
Measurement 
8.2.1 Feedback 
(a) As one of the measurements of the effectiveness of the quality 
management system, the organization shall collect and 
monitor information relating to whether customer 
requirements have been met.  
(b) The methods for obtaining and using this information shall be 
documented. 
(c) The organization shall document procedures for the feedback 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
252 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
process. The feedback process shall include provisions for 
gathering data from production as well as post-production 
activities.  
(d) Information gathered in the feedback process shall be used as 
potential input to risk management in order to monitor and 
maintain the product requirements and the production 
realization or improvement processes. 
(e) Where applicable statutory requirements require the 
organization to collect information from post-production 
activities, review of that information shall be part of the 
feedback process. 
8.2.2 Handling 
of Complaints 
(a) The organization shall document procedures for timely 
handling of complaints in accordance with applicable statutory 
requirements. These procedures shall include, at a minimum, 
the following requirements and responsibilities: 
1)  Receiving and recording information; 
2)  Evaluating information to determine whether feedback 
constitutes a complaint; 
3)  Investigating complaints; 
4)  Determining whether the information must be reported to 
the appropriate regulatory authorities;  
5)  Handling complaint-related product; 
6)  Determining the need for correction or corrective action. 
(b) If any complaint is not investigated, the justification for not 
conducting the investigation shall be documented. All results 
of corrections and corrective actions arising from the 
complaint handling process shall be documented. 
(c) Where an investigation determines that activities external to 
the organization caused the complaint, relevant information 
shall be exchanged between the organization and the external 
parties.  
(e) Records of complaint handling shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.2.3 Reporting 
to Regulatory 
Authorities 
(a) Where complaints are subject to adverse event reporting or 
advisory notice reporting in accordance with applicable 
statutory requirements, the organization shall document 
procedures for reporting such complaints to the regulatory 
authorities.  
(b) Records of reports submitted to regulatory authorities shall be 
maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.2.4 Internal 
Audit 
(a) The organization shall conduct internal audits at planned 
intervals to determine whether the quality management 
system: 
1)  Conforms to the planned and documented (established, 
implemented, and maintained) arrangements, the 
requirements of this GMP, the quality management system 
requirements established by the organization, and the 
applicable statutory requirements; 
2)  Is effectively implemented and maintained. 
(b) The organization shall document procedures that define the 
responsibilities and requirements for planning and conducting 
audits, and for recording and reporting audit results. 
(c) The audit program shall be planned, taking into consideration 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
253 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
the status and importance of the processes and areas to be 
audited, as well as the results of previous audits. The audit 
criteria, scope, frequency, and methods shall be defined and 
recorded. Auditors shall be selected and audits conducted to 
ensure objectivity and impartiality of the audit process. 
Auditors shall not audit their own work. Records of the audit 
and audit results, including the processes and areas audited 
and the conclusions reached, shall be maintained. 
(d) Management responsible for the areas being audited shall 
ensure that necessary corrections and corrective actions are 
taken without undue delay to eliminate detected 
nonconformities and their causes. Follow-up activities shall 
include the verification of the actions taken and the reporting 
of the results of verification. 
8.2.5 
Monitoring and 
Measurement 
of Processes 
The organization shall apply suitable methods for 
monitoring and, where applicable, measurement of the 
quality management system processes. These methods shall 
demonstrate the ability of the processes to achieve the 
planned results. When the planned results are not achieved, 
appropriate correction and corrective action shall be taken to 
ensure conformity of the product.  
 
 
 
 
 
8.2.6 
Monitoring and 
Measurement 
of Product 
(a) The organization shall monitor and measure the characteristics 
of the product to verify that product requirements have been 
met. This shall be carried out at appropriate stages of the 
production realization process in accordance with the planned 
and documented arrangements and documented procedures. 
(b) Records demonstrating conformity with the acceptance criteria 
shall be maintained. The identity of the person authorizing 
product release shall be recorded. Where applicable, the test 
equipment used for measurement activities shall be identified 
and recorded. 
(c) Product shall not be released, nor shall service be provided, 
until the planned and documented activities have been 
satisfactorily completed. 
(d) For medical devices subject to traceability, the organization 
shall identify and record the identity of personnel performing 
all inspections or tests. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.3 Control of 
Nonconforming 
Product 
8.3.1 General 
(a) The organization shall ensure that nonconforming product is 
identified and controlled to prevent its unintended use or 
delivery. The organization shall document procedures that 
define the controls and related responsibilities and authorities 
for dealing with nonconforming product, including 
identification, documentation, segregation, evaluation, and 
disposition. 
(b) Evaluation of nonconformities shall include investigation into 
any external party responsible for the nonconformity and 
determination of whether notification is required. 
(c) Records of the nonconformity, including the evaluation, 
investigation, the basis for the decisions made, and all actions 
taken in response, shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.3.2 Actions in 
Response to 
Nonconforming 
(a) The organization shall deal with nonconforming product in one 
or more of the following ways:  
1)  Taking action to eliminate the detected nonconformity; 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
254 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
Product 
Detected Prior 
to Delivery 
2)  Taking action to preclude its original intended use or 
application; 
3)  Authorizing its use, release, or acceptance under 
concession. 
(b) The organization shall ensure that concessions are granted only 
when justified, approved, and compliant with applicable 
statutory requirements. Records shall be maintained to identify 
acceptance under concession and the personnel authorizing the 
concession. 
8.3.3 Actions in 
Response to 
Nonconforming 
Product 
Detected After 
Delivery 
(a) When nonconforming product is detected after delivery or use, 
the organization shall take appropriate action regarding the 
effects or potential effects of the nonconformity. Records of 
the actions taken shall be maintained. 
(b) The organization shall document procedures for issuing 
advisory notices in accordance with applicable statutory 
requirements. These procedures shall be capable of being 
implemented at any time. Records of the actions related to 
advisory notices shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.3.4 Rework 
(a) The organization shall perform rework in accordance with 
documented procedures that take into account any potential 
adverse effects on the product. These procedures shall be 
subject to the same review and approval as the original 
procedures.  
(b) After completion of the rework, the product shall be verified to 
ensure that it meets the applicable acceptance criteria and 
statutory requirements.  
(c) Records of the rework shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.4 Analysis of 
Data 
(a) The organization shall document procedures to determine, 
collect, and analyze appropriate data to demonstrate the 
suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of the quality 
management system. These procedures shall include the 
determination of appropriate methods, including statistical 
techniques and the extent of their application. 
(b) Analysis of data shall include data generated from the results 
of monitoring and measurement and from other relevant 
sources, and shall include, at a minimum, the following inputs: 
1)  Feedback;  
2)  Conformity to product requirements;  
3)  Process and product characteristics and trends, including 
opportunities for improvement; 
4)  Suppliers; 
5)  Audits; 
6)  Service reports, where applicable. 
(c) Where analysis of data shows that the quality management 
system is not suitable, adequate, or effective, the organization 
shall use this analysis as input for improvement as required in 
8.5.  
(d) Records of the results of data analysis shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.5 
Improvement 
8.5.1 General 
The organization shall identify and implement any changes 
necessary to ensure and maintain the ongoing suitability, 
adequacy, and effectiveness of the quality management 
system, as well as the safety and performance of medical 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
255 
 
GMP Criteria  
Requirements  
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment Result 
Remarks 
A 
B 
C 
D 
Requirements 
devices, through the use of the quality policy, quality 
objectives, audit results, post-marketing surveillance, data 
analysis, corrective and preventive actions, and management 
review.  
8.5.2 
Corrective 
Action 
(a) The organization shall take action to eliminate the causes of 
nonconformities in order to prevent their recurrence. 
(b) Corrective actions required shall be taken without undue delay. 
Corrective actions shall be proportionate to the effects of the 
nonconformities encountered. 
(c) Documented procedures shall define requirements for: 
1)  Reviewing nonconformities (including customer 
complaints); 
2)  Determining the causes of nonconformities; 
3)  Evaluating the need for action to ensure that 
nonconformities do not recur; 
4)  Planning and documenting the required actions and 
implementing them, including document changes where 
applicable;  
5)  Verifying that corrective actions do not adversely affect 
the safety and performance of the medical device or 
compliance with applicable statutory requirements; 
6)  Reviewing the effectiveness of the corrective actions 
taken. 
(d) Records of all investigation results and actions taken shall be 
maintained.  
 
 
 
 
 
8.5.3 
Preventive 
Action 
(a) The organization shall determine preventive actions to 
eliminate the causes of potential nonconformities in order to 
prevent their occurrence. Preventive actions shall be 
proportionate to the potential impacts of such issues.  
(b) Documented procedures shall define requirements for:  
1)  Determining potential nonconformities and their causes; 
2)  Evaluating the need for action to prevent the occurrence of 
nonconformities; 
3)  Planning and documenting the required actions and 
determining and implementing such actions, including 
document changes where applicable; 
4)  Verifying that preventive actions do not adversely affect 
the safety and performance of the medical device or 
compliance with applicable statutory requirements; 
5)  Reviewing the effectiveness of preventive actions taken, 
where applicable. 
(c) Records of the results of all investigations and actions taken 
shall be maintained.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
256 
 
1.  Assessment Sheet 
(a)  “A (Conforming)” means that the requirements prescribed in the Good Manufacturing 
Practice (GMP) are recognized as being met. 
(b)  “B (Additional action required)” means that the requirements prescribed in the Good 
Manufacturing Practice (GMP) are not being fully met, or that although the 
requirements are being met, the evidence of conformance, feasibility of implementation, 
or adequacy of documentation is insufficient, thereby requiring improvement or 
supplementary actions. 
(c)  “C (Nonconforming)” means that no action has been taken in response to “Additional 
action required,” or that a violation of statutes related to medical devices has occurred. 
(d)  “D (Not applicable)” means that the requirement prescribed in the Good Manufacturing 
Practice (GMP) does not apply. 
 
2.  Determination Criteria 
(a)  Conforming 
1)  Where all items under each review criterion are rated “A (Conforming).” 
2)  Where all other items under each review criterion are rated “A (Conforming),” and 
certain sections—specifically Sections 4.1 through 6.3 (excluding Section 4.2.3) 
and Section 8.2.4—are rated “B (Additional action required).” Provided, however, 
that this shall not apply where the same item was rated “B (Additional action 
required)” or “C (Nonconforming)” in the previous assessment. 
(b)  Additional action required 
 
Where all other items under each assessment criterion are rated “A (Conforming),” and 
some items are rated “B (Additional action required)” (provided, however, that this does 
not apply to cases under item (a) 2)). 
(c)  Nonconforming 
1)  Where the required actions have not been submitted or have not been completed. 
2)  Where one or more items are rated “C (Nonconforming)” in the evaluation sheet. 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
257 
 
[Annex 3]  
 
Medical Device GMP Product Groups 
(Related to Articles 4, 6, and 7) 
 
No. 
Product Group 
Categories 
1 
General Equipment for Medical 
Treatment 
A01000 Operating and Treatment Table 
A02000 Bed for Medical Use 
A03000 Medical Light and Lamps  
A68000 Dental Unit and Chair 
A88000 Treatment Table for Ear, Nose and Throat  
A89000 Ophthalmic Instrument Table and Chair 
A04000 Medical Sterilizing Apparatus 
A05000 Medical Water Sterilizers 
2 
Surgical Operation System 
A06000 Anesthesia Apparatus  
A39000 Aspirators for Medical Use 
A35000 Electrosurgical and Other Surgical Devices 
A36000 Cryosurgery Device 
A40000 Pneumothorax and Pneumoperitoneum Apparatus 
3 
Laser Surgical Devices 
A37000 Laser Apparatus for Medical Use 
A15500 Laser Protective Device 
4 
Chamber for Medical Purpose 
A08000 Medical Chamber 
A34000 Thermostats for Medical Use  
5 
Life Support System 
A07000 Respiratory Apparatus  
A10000 Neonatal Incubator 
6 
Device for Replacing Function of 
Internal Organ (I) 
A09000 Artificial Internal Organ Apparatus  
7 
Device for Replacing Function of 
Internal Organ (II) 
A09000 Artificial Internal Organ Apparatus (Class 3,4) 
8 
Diagnostic Imaging System(I) 
A11000 Diagnostic X-ray System 
A12000 Non-ionization Diagnostic Device 
A13000 Radiologic Device 
9 
Diagnostic Imaging System (II) 
A14000 Film Developer for Medical Use 
A87000 Film Viewing Devices for Medical Use  
B01000 Radiographic Supplies 
A15000 Radiation Protective Device 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
258 
 
No. 
Product Group 
Categories 
10 
Physical Devices for Medical Use (I) 
A16000 Physical Devices for Medical Use 
11 
Physical Devices for Medical Use (II) 
A16000 Physical Devices for Medical Use (Class 3,4) 
12 
Machine or Instrument for Generating 
Electric Stimulation, Medical Use 
A83000 Electric Stimulator for Medical Use by Persona 
A85000 Magnetic Induction Apparatus for Medical Use 
A67000 Medical Device for Orthopedics and Restoration 
A82000 Vibrators 
13 
Cardiovascular Devices (I) 
A17000 Cardiovascular Devices 
14 
Cardiovascular Devices (II) 
A17000 Cardiovascular Devices (Class 3,4) 
15 
Urology Devices (I) 
A18000 Urology Devices 
16 
Urology Devices (II) 
A18000 Urology Devices (Class 3,4) 
17 
Tissue Processing Device 
A33000 Tissue Processing Device 
A91000 Medical Cell and Tissue Processing Device 
18 
Instruments for Ligature and Suture (I) A38000 Instruments for Ligature and Suture 
19 
Instruments for Ligature and Suture (II) A38000 Instruments for Ligature and Suture (Class 3,4) 
20 
Patient Transport Vehicle 
A19000 Patient Transport  
21 
Probe and Sound for Medical Use (I) 
A58000 Medical Informant 
22 
Probe and Sound for Medical Use (II) 
A58000 Medical Informant (Class 3,4) 
23 
Physiological Monitoring Device (I) 
A20000 Stethoscope 
A21000 Clinical Thermometric System 
A28000 Eye Testing Instruments 
A29000 Hearing Testing Instruments 
B06000 Test Chart for Visual Acuity and Color Blindness 
(Class 1)  
24 
Physiological Monitoring Device (II) 
A23000 Sphygmomanometers and Sphygmographs  
A25000 Body Fluid Testing Apparatus (Class 1) 
A26000 Visceral Function Testing Instruments 
A30000 Perception and Organs Diagnostic Devices 
A27000 Respiratory Function Testing Apparatus  
25 
Measuring and Introducing Instrument 
(I) 
A64000 Measuring and Introducing Instrument 
26 
Measuring and Introducing Instrument 
(II) 
A64000 Measuring and Introducing Instrument (Class 4) 
27 
Medical Speculum (I) 
A31000 Speculums for Medical Use 
28 
Medical Speculum (II) 
A31000 Speculums for Medical Use (Class 4) 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
259 
 
No. 
Product Group 
Categories 
29 
Machine or Instrument for Medical 
Treatment (I) 
A41000 Knives for Medical Use 
A42000 Scissors for Medical Use 
A43000 Curettes for Medical Use 
A44000 Clamp for Medical Use 
A45000 Forceps for Medical Use 
A46000 Saw for Medical Use 
A47000 Chisel for Medical Use 
A48000 Raspatories for Medical Use 
A49000 Mallet for Medical Use 
A80000 Hernia Supporters 
A62000 Filling Instruments for Medical Use 
A63000 Depressors for Medical Use 
30 
Machine or Instrument for Medical 
Treatment (II) 
A50000 File for Medical Use 
A51000 Lever for Medical Use 
A52000 Snare for Medical Use 
A55000 Puncturing, Abrasion, Perforating Instrument for 
Medical Use 
A56000 Wound Retractors and Speculums 
A59000 Dilator and Expander for Medical Use 
A60000 Applicator for Medical Use 
A61000 Dispenser and Mixing Instrument 
A65000 Douche Instruments for Medical Use 
A81000 Inhalators for Medical Use 
31 
Syringe or Needle 
A53000 Needle for Syringe and Puncture 
A54000 Syringes 
A84000 Acupuncture and Moxibustion Apparatus  
32 
Tube and Catheter for Medical Use (I) A57000 Tube and Catheter for Medical Use 
33 
Tube and Catheter for Medical Use (II) A57000 Tube and Catheter for Medical Use (Class 3,4) 
34 
Blood Donor or Transfusion and Biopsy 
Set (I) 
A66000 Blood Donor or Transfusion and Biopsy Set 
35 
Blood Donor or Transfusion and Biopsy 
Set (II) 
A66000 Blood Donor or Transfusion and Biopsy Set 
(Class 3,4) 
36 
Infusion Instruments (I) 
A79000 Infusion Instruments 
37 
Infusion Instruments (II) 
A79000 Infusion Instruments (Class 3,4) 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
260 
 
No. 
Product Group 
Categories 
38 
Machine or Device for Dental 
Treatment 
A69000 Dental Engine  
A70000 Broaches for Dental Use 
A71000 Explorers for Dental Use 
A72000 Moisture-excluding Instruments for Dental Use  
A73000 Impression Taking and Articulating Instruments 
A74000 Vulcanizers and Curing Units for Dental Use 
39 
Sight Corrective Spectacles 
A76000 Sight Corrective Spectacles 
40 
Ophthalmic Lens (I) 
A77000 Ophthalmic Lens 
41 
Ophthalmic Lens (II) 
A77000 Ophthalmic Lens (Class 3,4) 
42 
Hearing Aid 
A78000 Hearing Aid 
43 
Equipment Generating Medical 
Substance 
A86000 Medicinal Substance-producing Equipment 
44 
Suture and Ligature 
B02000 Suture and Ligature 
45 
Suture and Ligature 
B02000 Suture and Ligature (Class 3,4) 
46 
Orthopedic Materials (Internal Total 
etc.) 
B03000 Orthopedic Materials (except for Orthopedic 
Materials II) 
47 
Orthopedic Materials 
B03190, B03240, B03260, B03280 - B03400 
48 
Interbody Implants for Medical Purpose 
C18000 Maxillofacial Plastic Material 
C19000 Maxillary Bone Fixation Material 
C21000 Implant, Endosseous, Hand Instrument  
49 
Dental Implant System (I) 
C20000 Dental Implant System 
50 
Dental Implant System (II) 
C20000 Dental Implant System (Class 3,4) 
51 
Substitute of Human Tissue or Body 
Function 
B04000 Human Tissue and Organ Substitute 
52 
Dental Bone Graft Material 
C22000 Dental Bone Graft Material 
53 
Guided Bone and Tissue Regeneration 
Material 
C23000 Guided Bone and Tissue Regeneration Material 
54 
Splints 
B05000 Splints 
55 
Surgical Supplies 
B07000 Surgical Supplies  
56 
Dressing 
B07070 Dressing 
57 
Condom 
B08000 Condom 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
261 
 
No. 
Product Group 
Categories 
58 
Contraceptive Device 
B09000 Contraceptive Device 
59 
Dental Alloy 
C01000 Dental Processing Alloy 
C02000 Dental Casting Alloy 
C03000 Metal-Ceramic Alloy 
C04000 Soldering Alloy 
C05000 Fabricated Alloy 
60 
Other Materials for Dental Treatment 
C06000 Direct Restorative Material 
C07000 Esthetic Prosthetic Material 
C08000 Denture Making Material/Denture Material 
C09000 denture material 
C11000 Dental Adhesive Cement 
C12000 Dental Bonding Agent 
C10000 Material for Root Canal Therapy 
C13000 Dental Impression Material  
C14000 Dental Wax 
C16000 Preventive Dental Material  
C17000 Orthodontic Material 
C24000 dental Diagnosis Material 
C25000 Prosthetic Adhesive Remover  
C26000 Other Prosthetic Material  
C27000 Other Restorative-Endodontic Material  
61 
Medical Device for Ubiquitous 
Healthcare (I) 
A90000 Medical Device for Ubiquitous Healthcare 
62 
Medical Device for Ubiquitous 
Healthcare (II) 
A90000 Medical Device for Ubiquitous Healthcare 
63 
Deleted 
 
64 
Deleted  
 
1.  The categories numbered 1 through 62 shall be classified according to the medical device 
middle-category as prescribed in Article 3 of the Medical Device Act and Article 2 of the 
Enforcement Rule of the same Act. 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
262 
 
[Annex 4] 
 
Entities for Conformity Recognition Assessments 
(Related to Article 6 and 8) 
 
1.  Conformity recognition assessments shall, pursuant to Article 4, be classified into initial 
assessments, additional assessments, assessments for change, and periodic assessments. 
 
2.  ‘Single-agency (assessment)’ means an assessment conducted solely by the head of audit 
organization, and “joint (assessment)” means a conformity recognition assessment conducted 
jointly by the Commissioner of Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety (hereinafter referred 
to as the “Commissioner of Regional Office”) and the head of audit organization. 
   
3.  The head of the audit organization shall conduct the conformity recognition assessments as a 
“single-agency assessment” under subparagraph 1 for manufacturing sites of Class I, Class II, 
and Class III domestically manufactured or imported medical devices, as well as 
manufacturing sites for medical devices for export. 
   
4.  The Commissioner of Regional Office and the head of the audit organization may conduct the 
conformity recognition assessments as a “joint assessment” under subparagraph 1 for 
manufacturing sites of Class IV domestically manufactured or imported medical devices. 
Provided, however, that assessments for change and periodic assessments (limited to document 
review) for such Class IV manufacturing sites, as well as combined assessments under 
subparagraph 72 of Annex 1, shall be conducted as a single-agency assessment by the audit 
organization. 
 
5.  Notwithstanding subparagraphs 3 and 4, where a manufacturing site for domestically 
manufactured or imported medical devices is deemed to be a Manufacturing Site of Potential 
Risks, the Commissioner of Regional Office and the head of the audit organization may 
conduct a joint on-site inspection as part of the conformity recognition assessments under 
subparagraph 1. 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
263 
 
[Annex 5]  
 
Issuance and Management of Conformity Recognition Certificates  
(Related to Article 8 (8), Article 9, and Article 10) 
 
1.  The issuing authority for the Conformity Recognition Certificate shall be as follows: 
(a)  For joint conformity recognition assessments pursuant to Annex 4, the Commissioner of 
Regional Office and the head of the audit organization; 
(b)  For single-agency conformity recognition assessments pursuant to Annex 4, the head of 
the audit organization. 
2.  Items of the Conformity Recognition Certificate and Instructions for Entry 
(a)  General Principles 
1)  Each item of the conformity recognition certificate shall be provided in both 
Korean and English. 
2)  Printing paper specification: 130 g white, A4 (210 × 297 mm) 
(b)  Required entries 
1)  Recognition number  
① Audit organization code - ② Assessment type - ③ Serial number 
 
①  Audit organization code 
    
Name of audit organization 
Agency code 
Name of audit organization 
Agency code 
Korea Testing Laboratory 
KTL 
Korea Conformity 
Laboratories 
KCL 
Korea Testing Certification 
Institute 
KTC 
Korea Testing & Research 
Institute 
KTR 
TÜ V SÜ D Korea 
TSK 
TÜ V Rheinland Korea 
TRK 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
264 
 
②   Assessment type: The assessment type shall be indicated using up to six digits.  
Assessment 
type 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G 
1st digit 
Manufacture 
Import 
 
 
 
 
 
2nd digit 
Initial 
assessment 
Periodic 
assessment 
Additional 
assessment 
Assessment 
for change 
 
 
 
3rd digit 
Document 
review 
On-site 
inspection 
Combined 
assessment 
 
 
 
 
4th digit 
Others 
Class I 
For 
investigation
al use 
For export 
Deleted 
Medical 
Device 
Single Audit 
Program 
(MDSAP) 
Excellent 
manufacturi
ng site 
5th digit 
Not 
applicable 
Conforming* 
2) 
 
 
 
 
 
6th digit 
 
 
 
 
Reissuance 
 
Replacement 
issuance 
   
*  
When applicable under Annex 2, Section 9.4, subparagraph 2 (a) 2)   
③ Serial number: A sequential number assigned in the order of assessment receipt 
2)  Name of business / License number: State the business name, business type 
(manufacturing 
or 
import), 
and 
license 
number 
as 
stated 
on 
the 
manufacturing/import business license. 
3) Business address: State the address as shown on the manufacturing/import business 
license; for importers, state only the address of the place of business. 
4)  Deleted 
5)  Name of manufacturing site: State the name of the manufacturing site of the legal 
manufacturer (where applicable) and the manufacturer. 
6)  Address of manufacturing site: State the location of the legal manufacturer (where 
applicable) and the manufacturer. 
7)  Product group: Enter the name of the product group corresponding to the product 
name listed on the product license (or notification) certificate; if multiple product 
groups apply, indicate them in an attachment. 
8)  Date of issuance: State the date of issuance of the conformity recognition 
certificate. 
9)  Expiration date: Indicate according to Article 9 of the text. 
10)  GMP mark: Print according to Annex 6. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
265 
 
11)  Official seal and personal seal: Print one of each clearly, reflecting the appropriate 
colors. 
12)  Changes and administrative actions: Indicate the review date, review type, 
transfer/acquisition, and other relevant matters. 
13)  Attachments: For all attachment pages, the recognition number (No.) shall be 
indicated in the upper left corner for identification. 
14)  Page numbering: When attachments to the Certificate of Conformity exist, indicate 
the page number at the top right corner (e.g., “Page 1 of 2” when the attachments 
consist of two pages and the current page is the first).  
15)  Seal: An embossed seal shall be affixed in the blank space next to the official stamp 
at the lower right corner of the Conformity Recognition Certificate, according to 
each issuing agency. 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
266 
 
[Annex 6]  
 
Marking of Conformity Recognition Assessment 
(Related to Article 11) 
 
1.  Design of the conformity recognition assessment mark 
(a)  Design 
 
(b)  Size ratio: Width × Height = 1 × 0.83 
(c)  Color code: Pantone 2736CVC 
 
2.  Methods and standards for marking 
(a)  The mark for conformity recognition assessment shall be applied based on the size and 
color specified in item (a), and may be used in various sizes (with the same proportions) 
and colors suitable for the characteristics of the product and its packaging materials; 
provided that the design of the mark shall not be altered. 
(b)  The method of the conformity recognition assessment marking in item (a) may follow the 
labeling requirements under Articles 20 through 22 of the Medical Device Act, and the 
mark may be affixed to one or more of the following: the container, outer packaging, 
external package, or package insert.  
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
267 
 
[Annex 7] 
 
Evaluation Criteria for Medical Device Audit Organizations 
(Related to Article 13) 
 
1.  Scope of Application  
 
Organizations seeking new designation as a medical device audit organization 
 
2.  Composition of the Evaluation Team 
 
The evaluation team shall consist of at least two officials of the Ministry of Food and Drug 
Safety, and external experts shall account for a majority of the committee members. 
 
3.  Evaluation Items 
(a)  Compliance with the standards for management and operation for medical device Audit 
Organizations (90%) 
(b)  Capability to perform conformity recognition assessments activities (10%) 
 
4.  Designation Criteria 
 
An absolute evaluation shall be conducted based on a total score of 100 points, and 
organization scoring 80 points or higher shall be designated.  
 
5.  Evaluation Procedure 
 
The evaluation team shall review and verify the evaluation report, supporting evidence, and 
other relevant materials of the audit organization, and shall assign scores for each evaluation 
item. 
 
6.  Designation Evaluation Report for Audit Organizations 
 
Audit Organization 
Requirements 
(Points) 
Evaluation Items 
Score 
1.  Audit Organization 
Requirements 
(a) General 
Requirements  
(4 points) 
(1) The policies, procedures, and operation of the audit 
organization in performing its duties shall be fair. 
 
(2) The audit organization shall be accessible to all applicants and 
shall not impose any unfair monetary or other conditions. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
268 
 
Audit Organization 
Requirements 
(Points) 
Evaluation Items 
Score 
(3) The audit organization shall perform the duties prescribed by 
the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
(4) The criteria for conformity recognition with respect to an 
applicant’s compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice 
shall be in accordance with the Good Manufacturing Practice 
for Medical Devices. Where a separate interpretation of this 
GMP is required, approval shall be obtained from the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety. 
(b) Organizational 
Structure  
(6 points) 
The organizational structure of the audit organization shall be 
capable of ensuring the reliability of assessment activities and 
shall meet the following requirements: 
(1) In performing assessment activities, the audit organization 
shall ensure independence and fairness and shall be 
accountable for its decisions. 
 
(2) The head of the audit organization shall designate an operating 
manager or a committee with overall responsibility for the 
following duties: 
(a) Supervision of the implementation of assessment activities 
prescribed under this GMP 
(b) Establishment and implementation of the operational 
policies for the audit organization 
(3) The audit organization shall have a documented organizational 
structure that ensures the fairness of its operations. Such 
organizational structure shall be designed to allow the 
participation of interested parties in establishing policies and 
principles related to the performance of assessment activities.  
(4) The audit organization shall establish internal procedures to 
fulfill its responsibilities and obligations in relation to its 
operation and the performance of assessment activities. Such 
procedures shall clearly define policies and procedures to 
ensure the continuity of assessment activities in cases where 
continued performance becomes difficult, including 
suspension of the organization’s operations, and the 
organization shall have in place appropriate means or 
arrangements to cover liabilities, such as compensation 
responsibilities, arising from its operations and activities.  
(5) The audit organization shall secure the financial resources and 
other resources necessary for stable operation and shall 
maintain an independent organization composed of personnel 
with the professional knowledge and experience required to 
perform assessment activities.  
(6) Personnel of the organization performing assessment activities 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
269 
 
Audit Organization 
Requirements 
(Points) 
Evaluation Items 
Score 
shall not engage in other duties that may impair the 
professionalism, fairness, or independence of assessments.  
(7) To ensure the reliability of operational capability related to 
assessment activities, the audit organization shall establish a 
quality management system as referred to in item (c).  
(8) The activities of the audit organization shall be conducted in a 
manner that ensures they do not affect the confidentiality, 
objectivity, or fairness of assessments, and the organization 
shall not directly or indirectly propose or promote any of the 
following to applicants:  
(a) Provision of consultancy services for obtaining or maintaining 
conformity recognition 
(b) Recommendation or referral to receive consultancy services from 
a specific organization 
(c) Consultancy services related to the design, implementation, or 
maintenance of a quality management system 
(d) Offering or providing information on benefits such as cost 
reductions or time savings in cases where consultancy services 
are received from a specific organization 
 
(9) It shall be ensured that the operating manager and all personnel 
of the audit organization are free from any commercial, 
financial, or other pressures that may influence, or have the 
potential to influence, the assessment process or assessment 
results.  
(c) Quality 
Management 
System  
(10 points) 
(1) The head of the audit organization shall establish and 
document a quality policy that includes quality objectives and 
a commitment to implementation, and shall maintain and 
manage the policy so that it is understood and implemented at 
all levels of the organization.  
 
(2) The head of the audit organization shall establish and 
document a quality management system appropriate to the 
types and volume of tasks to be performed in accordance with 
this GMP, and shall ensure that such system is available for use 
by the personnel of the audit organization. The head of the 
audit organization shall demonstrate that the documented 
quality manual, procedures, and guidelines are being 
effectively implemented, and shall designate a quality manager 
vested with authority over the following matters:  
(a) Establishment, implementation, and maintenance of the quality 
management system in accordance with this GMP 
(b) Reporting operational performance to the head of the audit 
organization for the review and improvement of the quality 
management system 
(3) The quality management system shall be documented in the 
form of a quality manual, relevant procedures, guidelines, and 
other related documents, and the quality manual shall include 
the following matters:  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
270 
 
Audit Organization 
Requirements 
(Points) 
Evaluation Items 
Score 
(a) The quality policy  
(b) Matters concerning the statutory status of the audit organization  
(c) Qualifications, experience, and authority of the operating 
manager and personnel belonging to the audit organization that 
may affect assessment activities  
(d) An organizational chart showing the lines of authority, 
responsibility, and division of duties centered on the head of the 
audit organization (The organizational chart shall indicate the 
relationship between the person responsible for assessments and 
the person responsible for conformity recognition decisions)  
(e) Matters concerning the organization of the audit organization (in 
this case, details regarding the operating manager or committee 
prescribed in item (b) (2), including its composition, allocation of 
duties, and rules of operation, shall be included)  
(f) Policies and procedures for conducting internal audits and quality 
management system reviews  
(g) Operational procedures, including control of documents  
(h) Responsibilities and authority of personnel in charge of 
operational and functional tasks related to assessment activities  
(i) Education and training plans for personnel of the audit 
organization, including quality auditors  
(j) Procedures for handling nonconformities identified after 
assessments and for ensuring the validity of corrective actions 
taken  
(k) Other policies and procedures necessary for the performance of 
assessment activities, including the issuance of conformity 
recognition certificates, conformity assessment of applicants’ 
compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice, and post-
assessment follow-up management  
  (l) Policies and procedures for handling appeals, complaints, and 
disputes  
(d) Requirements for 
Approval of 
Conformity 
Recognition  
(4 points) 
(1) The head of the audit organization shall establish the 
conditions for approval of conformity recognition, and shall 
require applicants to notify the audit organization in cases 
where the applicant changes its quality management system to 
an extent that may affect conformity.  
 
(2) The audit organization shall establish procedures for 
performing conformity recognition assessments. 
(e) Internal Audit and 
Review of the 
Quality 
Management 
System (8 points) 
(1) The head of the audit organization shall conduct internal audits 
at least once a year, in a systematic manner, covering all 
procedures related to assessment activities, in order to verify 
the implementation and validity of the quality management 
system, and shall ensure the following: 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
271 
 
Audit Organization 
Requirements 
(Points) 
Evaluation Items 
Score 
(a) Notification and reporting of audit results to the personnel of the 
audited organization and to the head of the audit organization  
(b) Implementation of corrective actions in a timely manner  
(c) Recording and maintenance of audit and corrective action results  
(2) The head of the audit organization shall conduct a review of 
the quality management system at least once a year in order to 
satisfy the requirements of this GMP, the quality policy, and 
quality objectives, and to continuously maintain conformity 
and validity, and shall retain records thereof.  
(f) Documentation  
(8 points) 
(1) The head of the audit organization shall prepare and manage 
documents covering the following matters: 
(a) The basis for performing assessment activities; 
 
(b) Criteria and procedures for approval of conformity recognition;  
(c) Guidelines and procedures, including assessment guidelines;  
(d) Matters related to assessment fees;  
(e) Procedures for handling appeals, complaints, and disputes; 
(f) A list of entities that have been granted conformity recognition.  
(2) The head of the audit organization shall establish procedures 
for controlling all documents and related materials pertaining 
to assessment activities, and shall maintain a document list that 
enables identification of the current version and revision status 
of each document. Where documents are initially prepared, 
revised, or otherwise amended, the validity thereof shall be 
reviewed and approved prior to issuance by a person vested 
with delegated authority.  
(g) Records  
(4 points) 
(1) The head of the audit organization shall retain documents 
related to assessment activities for five years, and shall 
establish policies and procedures for their proper retention.  
 
(2) Documents related to assessment activities shall be maintained 
in a manner that ensures traceability, and shall be securely 
stored with appropriate security measures in place.  
(h) Confidentiality  
(4 points) 
The head of the audit organization shall establish documented 
procedures to ensure the confidentiality of information concerning 
applicants collected in the course of performing duties, and shall 
not disclose such information to any third party without the 
applicant’s written consent, except where specifically required 
under this GMP.  
 
2.  Composition of 
Personnel and 
Assessment Teams 
(1) Personnel of the organization performing assessment activities 
shall have the competence required for their respective duties, 
and the organization shall secure at least one senior quality 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
272 
 
Audit Organization 
Requirements 
(Points) 
Evaluation Items 
Score 
of the Audit 
Organization 
(a) General 
Requirements  
(10 points) 
auditor and two or more quality auditors.  
(2) The organization shall maintain and manage up-to-date records 
of the qualifications, education and training, and experience of 
personnel performing assessment activities, and shall maintain 
guidelines that clearly describe each individual’s duties and 
responsibilities.  
(b) Qualification 
Criteria for 
Quality Auditors 
and Technical 
Experts  
(10 points) 
(1) A quality auditor shall be a graduate of a university or an 
equivalent or higher educational institution and shall meet one 
of the following requirements:  
(a) A certified auditor for quality management system 
(b) A person who has obtained the qualification of assistant quality 
management system auditor and has worked in the medical 
device quality management field for at least one year 
(c) A certified auditor in the medical device field in accordance with 
Article 6 of the Enforcement Rule of the Industrial 
Standardization Act 
 
(2) A technical expert is not required to meet the qualification 
requirements for a quality auditor, but shall meet one of the 
following requirements:  
(a) A person who has directly conducted research, planning, or 
implementation of relevant work in the medical device field for 
at least ten years at a research institute, public institution, 
organization, or company 
(b) A person who holds a professional engineer license or a doctoral 
degree in the medical device field 
(c) Composition of 
Assessment 
Teams (2 points)  
 
(1) Assessment teams shall be organized in accordance with the 
provisions determined by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
Provided, however, that where necessary, technical experts related to 
the medical devices subject to assessment may be included in the 
assessment team. Such technical experts may provide advice to the 
assessment team under the supervision of auditors.  
 
(2) Assessment teams shall have knowledge of the applicable 
relevant statutes, assessment criteria, and requirements, and 
shall possess sufficient experience and competence in medical 
device quality management as specified below, and shall be 
able to communicate effectively both in writing and orally.  
(a) Evaluation of applicants’ compliance with Good Manufacturing 
Practice and determination of the effectiveness of their 
implementation 
(b) Understanding of specific standards and criteria applied to the 
evaluation of applicants’ compliance with Good Manufacturing 
Practice 
(c) Assessment of the intended use and risks related to the medical 
devices subject to assessment 
(d) Evaluation of design, manufacturing processes, and related 
technologies  
(d) Records on 
(1) The head of the audit organization shall maintain and manage 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
273 
 
Audit Organization 
Requirements 
(Points) 
Evaluation Items 
Score 
Quality Auditors 
and Technical 
Experts  
(6 points) 
up-to-date records on quality auditors and technical experts 
with respect to the following matters:  
(a) Name and address 
(b) Position and title 
(c) Evidence of educational background and professional technical 
qualifications 
(d) Scope of assessment activities and grounds for assignment, 
practical experience, and education and training 
(e) Date of last qualification renewal 
(f) A statement that consultancy services will not be provided to 
applicants 
(2) The head of the audit organization shall maintain and manage 
records that enable confirmation that quality auditors and 
technical experts satisfy the requirements of this GMP.  
3.  Assessment 
Procedures 
(a) Assessment 
Preparation  
(4 points) 
(1) The audit organization shall evaluate the “Application for 
Conformity Recognition of Good Manufacturing Practice for 
Medical Devices” submitted by the applicant, together with the 
required supporting documents, and shall designate the 
auditors who will conduct the assessment and, where 
necessary, technical experts related to the medical devices 
subject to assessment. 
 
(2) In selecting specific auditors and technical experts, the audit 
organization shall provide an advance notice period taking into 
account the possibility of objections by the applicant, and shall 
notify the applicant of the list of auditors and technical experts 
who will conduct the assessment. 
(3) The audit organization shall consult with the applicant 
regarding the assessment plan and schedule. 
(4) For the preparation of on-site assessments, the assessment team 
shall review the required documents and relevant regulations 
and shall maintain appropriate confidentiality in handling such 
materials. 
(5) The audit organization shall provide the assessment team with 
all documents and information received from the applicant. 
(b) Assessment  
(3 points) 
(1) Based on all requirements related to the Good Manufacturing 
Practice, the assessment team shall review documents and 
records extracted from all stages of the applicant’s quality 
management system. Such extracted documents and records 
shall reflect information relevant to risks associated with the 
intended use of the medical device, the complexity of 
manufacturing technologies, the scope of medical devices 
manufactured, and post-market surveillance.  
 
(2) The assessment team shall collect and verify objective 
evidence through interviews, document reviews, and 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
274 
 
Audit Organization 
Requirements 
(Points) 
Evaluation Items 
Score 
observation of activities and conditions in relevant areas.  
(3) Findings shall be recorded as follows: 
(a) In a clear and concise manner;  
(b) Supported by objective evidence;  
(c) Indicating the specific requirements that have not been met.  
(4) The assessment team (including technical experts) shall not 
provide consultancy to the applicant during the assessment 
process.  
(c) Notification of 
Assessment 
Results  
(3 points) 
(1) Prior to leaving the assessment site, the assessment team shall 
hold a meeting with the applicant’s management and relevant 
responsible personnel. At the meeting, the assessment team 
shall notify the applicant of the results of the evaluation of the 
applicant’s compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice, 
provide the applicant with an opportunity to ask questions 
regarding the findings identified by the assessment team and 
the grounds therefor, and obtain management’s agreement on 
the identified findings.  
 
(2) The assessment team shall submit a results report on the 
conformity assessment of the applicant’s compliance with 
Good Manufacturing Practice to the audit organization.  
(3) Based on the results report, the audit organization shall issue to 
the applicant either a Conformity Recognition Certificate 
under the Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices 
or a Request for Supplementation, and the Request for 
Supplementation shall specify the items to be supplemented by 
the applicant.  
4.  Procedures for 
Handling Appeals, 
Complaints, and 
Disputes  
(4 points) 
The head of the audit organization shall establish procedures for 
handling appeals, complaints, and disputes raised by applicants or 
other relevant parties, and shall record the following matters: 
(1) All appeals, complaints, and disputes related to assessment 
activities and the actions taken in response thereto  
(2) Appropriate corrective and preventive actions  
(3) Documentation of corrective actions taken and evaluation of 
their validity  
 
5.  Capability to 
Perform Quality 
Control Assessment 
Activities  
(10 points) 
As an audit organization, the organization shall have experience in 
quality control assessments, areas of performance, operational 
capability, and work experience in the medical device field. 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
275 
 
[Annex 8] 
 
Standards for Management and Operation for  
Medical Device Audit Organizations 
(Related to Article 14) 
 
1.  Requirements for Audit Organizations 
(a)  General Requirements 
1)  The policies, procedures, and operation of the audit organization in performing its 
duties shall be fair.  
2)  The audit organization shall be accessible to all applicants for conformity 
recognition assessments (hereinafter referred to as the “applicants”) and shall not 
impose any unjust monetary or other conditions.  
3)  The audit organization shall perform the duties prescribed by the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety. 
4)  Conformity recognition assessments with respect to an applicants’ compliance with 
Good Manufacturing Practice shall be conducted in accordance with the Good 
Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices. Where a separate interpretation of this 
GMP is required, approval shall be obtained from the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety. 
 
(b)  Organizational Structure 
 
The organizational structure of the audit organization shall be capable of ensuring the 
reliability of conformity recognition assessments activities and shall meet the following 
requirements: 
1)  In performing duties such as conformity recognition assessments, the audit 
organization shall ensure independence and fairness and shall be accountable for its 
decisions. 
2)  The head of the audit organization shall designate an operating manager or a 
committee with overall responsibility for the following duties: 
(a)  Supervision of the implementation of assessment activities in accordance with 
this GMP 
(b)  Establishment and implementation of the operational policies for the audit 
organization 
3)  The audit organization shall have a documented organizational structure that 
ensures the fairness of its operations. Such organizational structure shall be 
designed to allow the participation of interested parties in establishing policies and 
principles related to the performance of assessment activities. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
276 
 
4)  The audit organization shall establish internal procedures to fulfill its 
responsibilities and obligations in relation to its operation and the performance of 
assessment activities. Such procedures shall clearly define policies and procedures 
to ensure the continuity of assessment activities in cases where continued 
performance becomes difficult, including suspension of the organization’s 
operations, and the organization shall have in place appropriate means or 
arrangements to cover liabilities, such as compensation responsibilities, arising 
from its operations and activities. 
5)  The audit organization shall secure the financial resources and other resources 
necessary for stable operation, and shall maintain an independent organization 
composed of personnel with the professional knowledge and experience required to 
perform assessment activities. 
6)  Personnel of the organization performing assessment activities shall not engage in 
other duties that may impair the professionalism, fairness, or independence of 
assessments. 
7)  To ensure the reliability of operational capability related to assessment activities, 
the audit organization shall establish a quality management system as referred to in 
item (c). 
8)  The activities of the audit organization shall be conducted in a manner that ensures 
they do not affect the confidentiality, objectivity, or fairness of assessments, and the 
organization shall not directly or indirectly propose or promote any of the following 
to applicants: 
(a)  Provision of consultancy services for obtaining or maintaining conformity 
recognition 
(b)  Recommendation or referral to receive consultancy services from a specific 
organization 
(c)  Consultancy services related to the design, implementation, or maintenance of 
a quality management system 
(d)  Offering or providing information on benefits such as cost reductions or time 
savings in cases where consultancy services are received from a specific 
organization 
9)  It shall be ensured that the operating manager and all personnel of the audit 
organization are free from any commercial, financial, or other pressures that may 
influence, or have the potential to influence, the assessment process or assessment 
results. 
 
(c)  Quality Management System 
1)  The head of the audit organization shall establish and document a quality policy 
that includes quality objectives and a commitment to implementation, and shall 
maintain and manage the policy so that it is understood and implemented at all 
levels of the organization. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
277 
 
2)  The head of the audit organization shall establish and document a quality 
management system appropriate to the types and volume of tasks to be performed 
in accordance with this GMP, and shall ensure that such system is available for use 
by the personnel of the audit organization. The head of the audit organization shall 
demonstrate that the documented quality manual, procedures, and guidelines are 
being effectively implemented, and shall designate a quality manager vested with 
authority over the following matters: 
(a)  Establishment, implementation, and maintenance of the quality management 
system in accordance with this GMP 
(b)  Reporting operational performance to the head of the audit organization for 
the review and improvement of the quality management system 
3)  The quality management system shall be documented in the form of a quality 
manual, relevant procedures, guidelines, and other related documents, and the 
quality manual shall include the following matters: 
(a)  The quality policy 
(b)  Matters concerning the statutory status of the audit organization 
(c)  Qualifications, experience, and authority of the operating manager and 
personnel belonging to the audit organization that may affect assessment 
activities 
(d)  An organizational chart showing the lines of authority, responsibility, and 
division of duties centered on the head of the audit organization (The 
organizational chart shall indicate the relationship between the person 
responsible for assessments and the person responsible for conformity 
recognition decisions) 
(e)  Matters concerning the organization of the audit organization (in this case, 
details regarding the operating manager or committee in accordance with item 
(b) (2), including its composition, allocation of duties, and rules of operation, 
shall be included.) 
(f)  Policies and procedures for conducting internal audits and quality 
management system reviews 
(g)  Operational procedures, including control of documents 
(h)  Responsibilities and authority of personnel in charge of operational and 
functional tasks related to assessment activities 
(i)  Education and training plans for personnel of the audit organization, including 
quality auditors 
(j)  Procedures for handling nonconformities identified after assessments and for 
ensuring the validity of corrective actions taken 
(k)  Other policies and procedures necessary for the performance of assessment 
activities, including the issuance of conformity recognition certificates, 
conformity assessment of applicants’ compliance with Good Manufacturing 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
278 
 
Practice, and post-assessment follow-up management (including follow-up 
actions after guidance and inspections pursuant to Article 16) 
(l)  Policies and procedures for handling appeals, complaints, and disputes 
 
(d)  Conditions for Approval of Conformity Recognition 
1)  The head of the audit organization shall establish the conditions for approval of 
conformity recognition, etc., and shall require applicants to notify the audit 
organization in cases where the applicant changes its quality management system to 
an extent that may affect conformity.  
2)  The audit organization shall establish procedures for performing conformity 
recognition assessments. 
 
(e)  Internal Audit and Review of the Quality Management System 
1)  The head of the audit organization shall conduct internal audits at least once a year, 
in a systematic manner, covering all procedures related to assessment activities, in 
order to verify the implementation and validity of the quality management system, 
and shall ensure the following: 
(a)  Notification and reporting of audit results to the personnel of the audited 
organization and to the head of the audit organization 
(b)  Implementation of corrective actions in a timely manner 
(c)  Recording and maintenance of audit and corrective action results 
2)  The head of the audit organization shall conduct a review of the quality 
management system at least once a year in order to satisfy the requirements of this 
GMP, the quality policy, and quality objectives, and to continuously maintain 
conformity and validity, and shall retain records thereof. 
 
(f)  Documentation 
1)  The head of the audit organization shall prepare and manage documents covering 
the following matters: 
(a)  The basis for performing assessment activities; 
(b)  Criteria and procedures for approval of conformity recognition; 
(c)  Guidelines and procedures, including assessment guidelines; 
(d)  Matters related to assessment fees; 
(e)  Procedures for handling appeals, complaints, and disputes; 
(f)  A list of entities that have been granted conformity recognition. 
2)  The head of the audit organization shall establish procedures for controlling all 
documents and related materials pertaining to assessment activities, and shall 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
279 
 
maintain a document list that enables identification of the current version and 
revision status of each document. Where documents are initially prepared, revised, 
or otherwise amended, the validity thereof shall be reviewed and approved prior to 
issuance by a person vested with delegated authority. 
 
(g)  Records 
1)  The head of the audit organization shall retain documents related to assessment 
activities for five years, and shall establish policies and procedures for their proper 
retention. 
2)  Documents related to assessment activities shall be maintained in a manner that 
ensures traceability, and shall be securely stored with appropriate security measures 
in place. 
 
(h)  Confidentiality 
 
The head of the audit organization shall establish documented procedures to ensure the 
confidentiality of information concerning applicants collected in the course of performing 
duties, and shall not disclose such information to any third party without the applicant’s 
written consent, except where specifically required under this GMP. 
 
2.  Composition of Personnel and Assessment Teams of the Audit Organization 
(a)  General Requirements 
1)  Personnel of the organization performing assessment activities shall have the 
competence required for their respective duties, and the organization shall secure at 
least one senior quality auditor and two or more quality auditors. 
2)  The organization shall maintain and manage up-to-date records of the 
qualifications, education and training, and experience of personnel performing 
assessment activities, and shall maintain guidelines that clearly describe each 
individual’s duties and responsibilities. 
 
(b)  Qualification and Criteria for Qualification Maintenance for Quality Auditors, Senior 
Quality Auditors, and Technical Experts 
1)  A quality auditor shall be a person who has obtained a bachelor’s degree or higher 
by majoring in a field of natural sciences, engineering, or medicine as prescribed in 
Article 2 (9) of the Regulation on the Establishment and Operation of Universities, 
at a school specified in the subparagraphs of Article 2 of the Higher Education Act 
(excluding junior colleges), and shall meet one of the following requirements:  
(a)  A certified auditor for quality management system 
(b)  A person who has obtained the qualification of assistant quality management 
system auditor and has engaged for at least one year in the field of medical 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
280 
 
device quality management (including GMP assessments, testing and 
inspection, and technical documentation review) 
(c)  A certified auditor in the medical device field pursuant to Article 15 of the 
Enforcement Rule of the Industrial Standardization Act 
(d)  A person who has performed related work in medical device manufacturing 
and quality management for at least two years and has completed the quality 
auditor training course for the Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical 
Device designated by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
2)  A senior quality auditor shall be a person who meets the qualifications under 1) and 
has at least six years of experience in conducting conformity recognition 
assessments under the Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Device at a 
regulatory authority or an organization delegated by a regulatory authority. 
3)  In order to maintain the qualifications of a senior quality auditor and a quality 
auditor, one of the following requirements shall be satisfied: 
(a)  Maintenance of the qualification as a certified quality management system 
auditor and completion of at least eight hours per year of a quality auditor 
qualification maintenance training course designated by the Minister of Food 
and Drug Safety 
(b)  Conducting five or more assessments per year (with at least 12 assessment 
days) of conformity recognition assessments under the Good Manufacturing 
Practice for Medical Device (on-site assessments), and completion of at least 
24 hours of technical development activities (including at least eight hours per 
year of a quality auditor qualification maintenance training course designated 
by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, and including education related to 
the Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Device, performance of 
research, acquisition of qualifications, etc.) 
4)  A technical expert is not required to meet the qualification requirements for a 
quality auditor, but shall meet one of the following requirements: 
(a) A person who has directly conducted research, planning, or implementation of 
relevant work in the medical device field for at least ten years at a research 
institute, public institution, organization, or company 
(b)  A person who holds a professional engineer license or a doctoral degree in the 
medical device field 
 
(c)  Composition of Assessment Teams 
1)  Assessment teams shall be organized in accordance with the provisions determined 
by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. Provided, however, that, where necessary, 
technical experts related to the medical devices subject to assessment may be 
included in the assessment team, and such technical experts may provide advice to 
the assessment team under the supervision of quality auditors. 
2)  Assessment teams shall have knowledge of the applicable relevant statutes, 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
281 
 
assessment criteria, and requirements, and shall possess sufficient experience and 
competence in medical device quality management as specified below, and shall be 
able to communicate effectively both in writing and orally. 
(a)  Evaluation of applicants’ compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice and 
determination of the effectiveness of their implementation 
(b)  Understanding of specific standards and criteria applied to the evaluation of 
applicants’ compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice 
(c)  Assessment of the intended use and risks related to the medical devices 
subject to assessment 
(d)  Evaluation of design, manufacturing processes, and related technologies 
 
(d)  Records on Quality Auditors and Technical Experts 
1)  The head of the audit organization shall maintain and manage up-to-date records on 
quality auditors and technical experts with respect to the following matters: 
(a)  Name and address 
(b)  Position and title 
(c)  Evidence of educational background and professional technical qualifications 
(d)  Scope of assessment activities and grounds for assignment, practical 
experience, and education and training 
(e)  Date of last qualification renewal 
(f)  A statement that consultancy services will not be provided to applicants 
(2)  The head of the audit organization shall maintain and manage records that enable 
confirmation that quality auditors and technical experts satisfy the requirements of 
this GMP. 
 
3.  Assessment Procedures 
 
Where matters are not specified under this GMP, the audit organization shall conduct 
assessment activities in accordance with the detailed operating rules approved by the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety. 
(a)  Assessment Preparation 
1)  The audit organization shall evaluate the Application for Conformity Recognition 
of Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Device submitted by the applicant, 
together with the required supporting documents, and shall designate the quality 
auditors who will conduct the assessment and, where necessary, technical experts 
related to the medical devices subject to assessment.  
2)  In selecting specific quality auditors and technical experts, the audit organization 
shall provide an advance notice period taking into account the possibility of 
objections by the applicant, and shall notify the applicant of the list of quality 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
282 
 
auditors and technical experts who will conduct the assessment. 
3)  The audit organization shall consult with the applicant regarding the assessment 
plan and schedule. 
4)  For the preparation of on-site assessments, the assessment team shall review the 
required documents and relevant regulations and shall maintain appropriate 
confidentiality in handling such materials. 
5)  The audit organization shall provide the assessment team with all documents and 
information received from the applicant. 
 
(b)  Assessment 
1)  Based on all requirements related to the Good Manufacturing Practice, the 
assessment team shall review documents and records extracted from all stages of 
the applicant’s quality management system. Such extracted documents and records 
shall reflect information relevant to risks associated with the intended use of the 
medical device, the complexity of manufacturing technologies, the scope of 
medical devices manufactured, and post-market surveillance. 
2)  The assessment team shall collect and verify objective evidence through interviews, 
document reviews, and observation of activities and conditions in relevant areas. 
3)  Findings shall be recorded as follows: 
(a)  In a clear and concise manner; 
(b)  Supported by objective evidence; 
(c)  Indicating the specific requirements that have not been met. 
4)  The assessment team (including technical experts) shall not provide consultancy to 
the applicant during the assessment process.  
 
(c)  Notification of Assessment Results 
1)  Prior to leaving the assessment site, the assessment team shall hold a meeting with 
the applicant’s management and relevant responsible personnel. At the meeting, the 
assessment team shall notify the applicant of the results of the evaluation of the 
applicant’s compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice, provide the applicant 
with an opportunity to ask questions regarding the findings identified by the 
assessment team and the grounds therefor, and obtain management’s agreement on 
the identified findings. 
2)  The assessment team shall submit a results report on the conformity assessment of 
the applicant’s compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice to the audit 
organization. 
3)  Based on the results report, the audit organization shall issue to the applicant either 
a Conformity Recognition Certificate under the Good Manufacturing Practice for 
Medical Devices or a Request for Supplementation, and the Request for 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
283 
 
Supplementation shall specify the items to be supplemented by the applicant. 
 
4.  Procedures for Handling Appeals, Complaints, and Disputes 
 
The head of the audit organization shall establish procedures for handling appeals, complaints, 
and disputes raised by applicants or other relevant parties, and shall record the following 
matters: 
1)  All appeals, complaints, and disputes related to assessment activities and the actions 
taken in response thereto 
2)  Appropriate corrective and preventive actions 
3)  Documentation of corrective actions taken and evaluation of their validity 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
284 
 
[Annex 9] 
Criteria for Designation of Training Organizations  
for Quality Manager 
(Related to Article 17) 
 
1.  Training Facilities and Equipment 
(a)  A training organization shall either own training facilities or continuously lease such 
facilities for the duration of the training period. 
(b)  Training facilities shall include lecture rooms, rest areas, restrooms (with separate 
facilities for men and women), parking areas, and other necessary facilities.  
(c)  There shall be at least one lecture room with a floor area of 150 m² or more (where the 
expected number of trainees exceeds 100, an additional 1.5 m² per excess trainee shall be 
secured). 
(d)  Lecture rooms shall be equipped with a sufficient number of chairs and desks to 
accommodate trainees, and shall be fitted with screens, audio systems, and other facilities 
enabling audiovisual instruction, as well as appropriate ventilation and lighting facilities. 
(e)  The training institution shall be equipped with equipment necessary for training, such as 
portable computers and beam projectors. 
 
2.  Training Personnel and Curriculum 
(a)  Training Administrator 
1)  A training organization shall designate at least one training administrator to 
supervise overall operations. 
(b)  Training instructors shall satisfy one of the following requirements: 
1)  A person who has graduated from a junior college or higher educational institution 
under the Higher Education Act with a major related to the training curriculum 
(including graduates of relevant majors who possess academic qualifications 
equivalent to or higher than those prescribed under other statutes) and has at least 
five years of practical experience in a relevant field 
2)  A person who has at least 50 hours of teaching experience over the past five years 
in education or training related to the Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical 
Device, conducted by a government authority or a government-designated 
institution 
3)  Any other person recognized by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety as having 
qualifications equivalent to those of a training instructor 
(c)  The curriculum. 
1)  A training organization shall establish and operate training programs to enable 
quality managers to develop fundamental competencies. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
285 
 
2)  A training organization shall establish and conduct training programs tailored to the 
characteristics of each training demand area of quality managers. 
 
3.  Training Implementation Rules  
A training organization shall establish and operate training implementation rules that include 
the following matters in order to ensure efficient implementation of training: 
(a)  Training objectives; 
(b)  Training subjects and methods for the preparation of training materials; 
(c)  Matters related to the conduct of training; 
(d)  Matters related to instructors and tuition fees; 
(e)  Matters related to the curriculum; 
(f)  Measures concerning class cancellations; 
(g)  Various forms related to training, including the register for issuance of certificates of 
completion 
(h)  Other matters necessary for the implementation of training 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
286 
 
[Form 1]                        
 (1/6) 
Application for Conformity Recognition Assessments of Medical Devices 
Receipt number 
 
Type of business □ Manufacturing  □ Import Business license 
number 
 
Name of business Korean: 
English: 
Representative 
Korean: 
English: 
Quality manager Name:  
Phone number:  
Address 
Korean: 
English: 
(☎                  ) ( FAX                   )( E-MAIL                ) 
Name/address of 
manufacturing site 
subject to 
assessment 
Legal manufacturer:  
(Name) 
(Location) 
Manufacturer:  
(Name) 
(Location) 
Assessment type 
□ Initial assessment  □ Periodic assessment  □ Assessment for change   
□ Additional assessment 
□ Class 1 medical device      
□ Medical device for investigational use       
□ Medical device for export 
□ Combination medical device 
□ Use of the Medical Device Single Audit Program 
□ Excellent manufacturing site 
 ※ Fill in only if applicable. 
Product 
Product group 
 
Product name / 
Class 
 
Preferred date of on-site inspection 
Year Month Day 
Remarks 
□ Applies as a manufacturing site of potential concern under Article 6 (3) 
□ Applied through a combined assessment 
In accordance with Article 7 of the Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices, I hereby apply for 
conformity recognition assessments as stated above. 
                                       
                     
 
 
 
Year     Month     Day 
                     
 
 
 
Applicant           (Signature or Seal) 
 
To: Head of ○○○ Audit Organization 
※  Required Documents 
 
Submission of documents required for conformity recognition assessments under Article 7 
Fee 
To be prescribed 
separately 
210 mm × 297 mm [standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
287 
 
(2/6) 
Submission 
Status 
Required Documents 
Remarks 
(file name, 
etc.) 
 
1.  
Application for Conformity Recognition Assessments of Medical 
Devices  
 
 
2.  
A copy of the manufacturing (import) business license or 
conditional manufacturing (import) business license for medical 
devices (excluding initial assessments or medical devices for 
investigational use) 
 
 
2-a.  
An overview of the manufacturing site (including the name of the 
site and the address of each facility; if there are multiple sites, all 
site names must be included), organizational chart, number of 
employees, and medical devices manufactured 
 
 
2-b.  
A copy of the quality management system conformity certificate 
issued by the regulatory authority or an agency delegated by the 
regulatory authority (only applicable to Article 6 (2) and Article 6 
(6)) and on-site inspection results (only applicable to Article 6 (2) 
2 and Article 6 (6), including any follow-up actions taken in 
response to the inspection results);  
 
 
2-c.  
Status of facilities for each manufacturing site subject to 
assessment (including floor plans of work areas, test laboratories, 
and storage areas; lists of facilities and equipment; cleanroom 
information, if applicable; and procedures related to monitoring 
and measuring equipment) 
 
 
2-d.  
The quality manual of the manufacturing site (including the 
quality policy) 
 
 
2-e.   Procedures and test reports related to finished product testing for 
the core product of the manufacturing site (including 
documentation demonstrating sterilization for sterile products) 
 
 
2-f.  
Purchasing and outsourcing procedures for the core product of the 
manufacturing site, names of major suppliers (including 
contracted suppliers), and scope of work 
 
 
2-g.  
Device Master Records of the core product (including 
descriptions of specific manufacturing processes such as 
sterilization or software, as applicable), and procedures for 
validation of sterilization, where applicable 
 
 
2-h.  
Checklist for Annex 2 criteria of the manufacturing site 
 
 
2-i.  
Declaration of conformity to Annex 2 criteria of the 
manufacturing site 
 
 
3.  
Other relevant documents. 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
288 
 
(3/6) 
Submission 
Status 
List of Required Documents (related to Article 7 (1) 3 ) 
Remarks 
(file name, 
etc.) 
 
1.  
Application for Conformity Recognition Assessments of Medical 
Devices  
 
 
2.  
The following documents corresponding to each item: 
 
 
2-a.  
A copy of the MDSAP conformity recognition certificate and the 
accompanying assessment results (including, where 
nonconformities were identified, the nonconformity report issued 
by the audit organization and the corrective and preventive action 
plan or results submitted by the manufacturing site that have been 
confirmed by the organization as compliant) 
 
 
2-b.  
Device Master Records for the product belonging to the highest 
classification level within each product group of the 
manufacturing site. Provided, however, that for an assessment for 
change, the Device Master Record shall be that of the product 
belonging to the highest classification level within the product 
group of the manufacturing site and having the highest 
manufacturing or import volume 
 
 
2-c. 
The following documents demonstrating that the quality 
management system complies with the requirements prescribed in 
statutes related to medical devices: 
 
 
1)  Quality manual of the manufacturing site; 
 
 
2)  Procedures related to record management; 
 
 
3)  Procedures that define the scope of responsibilities of the 
quality manager; 
 
 
4)  Procedures for managing medical devices subject to traceability 
(where applicable); 
 
 
5)  Procedures for adverse event reporting and advisory notices. 
 
 
2-d.  
Documents demonstrating the correlation between the MDSAP 
conformity recognition certificate and the products subject to 
conformity recognition assessments 
 
※ To be completed only when applying for conformity determination using the Medical Device 
Single Audit Program (MDSAP). 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
289 
 
(4/6) 
Submission 
Status 
List of Required Documents (related to Article 7 (1) 4 ) 
Remarks 
(file name, 
etc.) 
 
1.  
Application for Conformity Recognition Assessments of Medical 
Devices  
 
 
2.  
A copy of the manufacturing (import) business license or 
conditional manufacturing (import) business license for medical 
devices 
 
 
3.  
The following documents corresponding to each item: 
 
 
3-a.  
Documentation confirming that the manufacturing site falls under 
Annex 1, subparagraph 71 (d) 
 
 
3-b.  
The Device Master Record for the core product that belongs to the 
highest classification level within each product group of the 
manufacturing site and has the highest manufacturing or import 
volume 
 
 
3-c.  
The following documents demonstrating the appropriateness of 
quality control over the past three years: 
 
 
1)  Procedures and test reports related to finished product testing 
(e.g., final release inspection) for the core product (including 
sterilization validation procedures and test reports for sterile 
products) 
 
 
2)  Documents on corrective and preventive actions taken in the 
last three years in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex 
2 
 
 
3)  Checklist under Annex 2 and declaration of conformity 
 
 
4.  
Other relevant documents. 
 
※ To be completed only when applying for conformity recognition assessment as an Excellent 
Manufacturing Site. 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
290 
 
(5/6) 
Interrelation within the Quality Management System 
Category 
Manufacturing Process Flow 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Region of the 
manufacturing 
site (country 
name for foreign 
sites) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indication of 
whether 
manufacturing is 
outsourced or in-
house 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMP Criteria 
GMP Requirements 
Interrelation within the Quality 
Management System 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Quality Management 
System 
4.1  General Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Documentation Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Management 
Responsibility 
5.1  Management Commitment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Customer Focus 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Quality Policy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.4  Planning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.5  Responsibility, Authority, and 
Communication 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6  Management Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Resource Management 
6.1  Provision of Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2  Human Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Infrastructure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Work Environment and 
Contamination Control 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Production Realization 
7.1  Planning of Production Realization 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2  Customer-Related Processes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3  Design and Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.4  Purchasing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5  Production and Service Provision 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.6  Control of Monitoring and Measuring 
Equipment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  Measurement, Analysis 
and Improvement 
8.1  General Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.2  Monitoring and Measurement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.3  Control of Nonconforming Product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.4  Analysis of Data 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.5  Improvement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
291 
 
                                      (6/6) 
Master List of Manufacturing Sites 
Information on the manufacturing site 
Information on manufactured products 
Remar
ks 
Name of 
manufacturi
ng site 
Locatio
n 
(addres
s) 
Name of 
representati
ve 
Head 
office 
addres
s 
Recogniti
on 
number 
Expirati
on date 
By 
produ
ct 
Subcla
ss 
numbe
r 
Produ
ct 
name 
Approv
al 
Numbe
r 
Approv
al 
Date 
Clas
s 
Manufacturi
ng site 
A 
 
 
 
 
 
Produ
ct a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Produ
ct b 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Produ
ct c 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturi
ng site 
B 
 
 
 
 
 
Produ
ct d 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Produ
ct e 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Produ
ct f 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturi
ng site 
C 
 
 
 
 
 
Produ
ct g 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Produ
ct h 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Produ
ct i 
 
 
 
 
 
 
※ To be completed only when applying collectively for multiple manufacturing sites 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
292 
 
[Form 2]             
 
(Front) 
Certificate No.: 
 
Certificate of GMP 
 
 
▪ 
Company name of Applicant / License No. 
 
▪ 
Company address of Applicant 
 
▪ 
Name of Manufacturer 
 
▪ 
Address of Manufacturer 
 
▪ 
Product Group 
 
We hereby certify that the above manufacturer complies with Korea Good 
Manufacturing Practices of Medical Devices for the Product group listed above 
 
Date of Issue :     .    .    . 
Date of Expiration :     .    .    . 
 
 
  Commissioner of Regional Office of  
Food and Drug Safety 
Seal  
             Head of the Audit Organization 
Seal  
 
 210 mm × 297 mm [standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
293 
 
(Back Page) 
Changes 
(Changes History Records of GMP Certificate) 
Date 
Description 
 
 
(Attachment) Where a combination medical device is included  
 
The product name of the combination medical device, and the name and address of 
the manufacturing site of the drugs or quasi-drug that is combined with or integrally 
incorporated into the combination medical device 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
294 
 
[Form 2-2]  
(Front) 
Certificate No.: 
 
Certificate of GMP 
 
 
▪ 
Company name of Applicant / License No. 
 
▪ 
Company address of Applicant 
 
▪ 
Name of Manufacturer 
 
▪ 
Address of Manufacturer 
 
▪ 
Product Group 
 
We hereby certify that the above manufacturer complies with Korea Good 
Manufacturing Practices of Medical Devices for the Product group listed above 
 
Date of Issue :     .    .    . 
Date of Expiration :     .    .    . 
 
 
 
             Head of the Audit Organization 
Seal  
 
 
 210 mm × 297 mm [standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
295 
 
(Back Page) 
Changes 
(Changes History Records of GMP Certificate) 
Date 
Description 
 
 
(Attachment) Where a combination medical device is included  
 
The product name of the combination medical device, and the name and 
address of the manufacturing site of the drugs or quasi-drug that is combined 
with or integrally incorporated into the combination medical device 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
296 
 
[Form 3]                                                      
Report on the Results of Conformity Recognition Assessment for Medical 
Devices 
Type of business 
 □ Manufacturing   
□ Import 
Business license 
number 
 
Name of business 
 
Representative 
 
Address 
(☎               )   ( FAX            ) 
Assessment type 
□ Initial assessment   
□ Periodic assessment   
□ Assessment for change  
□ Additional assessment 
□ Class 1 medical device      
□ Medical device for investigational use       
□ Medical device for export 
□ Combination medical device 
□ Use of the Medical Device Single Audit Program 
□ Excellent manufacturing site 
 ※ Fill in only if applicable. 
Method of assessment 
□ On-site inspection □ Document review □ Combined assessment 
Product 
Product group 
 
Product name / Class 
 
Assessment team 
Affiliation 
Name 
Ministry of Food and Drug 
Safety 
 
Audit Organization 
(Name of Agency) 
 
Assessment date 
(YYYY/MM/DD) 
  .    .    .  -   .    .    . 
Assessment result 
□ Conforming    □ Additional actions required (by . . )   □ Nonconforming  
In the case of Section 9.4, subparagraph 2, item (a) 2), the results of corrective 
actions shall be submitted by (yyyy.mm.dd). 
 In accordance with Articles 6 and 8 of the Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices, we hereby 
report the results of the conformity recognition assessments as stated above.  
   Year Month Day 
                  Head of ○○○ Audit Organization 
Seal 
 
 
 
 
 ※ Attachments: One copy of the Conformity Recognition Assessment Form for Medical Devices 
 210 mm × 297 mm [standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
297 
 
[Form 4]                                                         
Periodic Report on the Results of Conformity Recognition Assessment for 
Medical Devices 
Quality Control 
Name of the 
audit 
organization 
 
Address 
 
                     (☎           ) (Fax           ) 
Assessment 
period 
          .    .    .     -      .    .    .  ( months) 
Assessment 
history 
Category 
Total 
Conforming 
Additional 
action required Nonconforming 
1)* 
2)** 
Initial 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional 
/ Change 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
 
Periodic 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
  In accordance with Article 15 of the Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices, we hereby report 
the results of the quality control assessment as stated above. 
 
Year     Month     Day  
                  Head of ○○○ Audit Organization 
Seal 
 
 
 
 
※ Attachment: Detailed List of Quality Control Assessment Results for Medical Devices (1 copy) 
* 1) When applicable under Annex 2, Section 9.4, subparagraph 2 (a) 1) 
* 2) When applicable under Annex 2, Section 9.4, subparagraph 2 (a) 2) 
 210 mm × 297 mm [standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Medical Devices 
 
 
 
298 
 
[Form 5]                                                         
List of the Results of Conformity Recognition Assessment for Medical Devices 
Name of audit organization 
 
         Year     Quarter 
Serial 
number 
Category 
Name of 
company 
Product name [Class] 
Assessment result 
(Conforming 1) / 
Conforming 2) / 
Additional action 
required / 
Nonconforming) 
Remarks 
Manufacture 
/ Import 
Initial / 
Change / 
Additional 
/Periodic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   *  
Conforming 1) When applicable under Annex 2, Section 9.4, subparagraph 2 (a) 1) 
  **  
Conforming 2) When applicable under Annex 2, Section 9.4, subparagraph 2 (a) 2) 
 ***  
In cases falling under a combined assessment, the relevant information shall be entered in the 
Remarks column 
 210 mm × 297 mm [standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
299 
 
Standards of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for 
In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
[Enforced on August 12, 2025] 
[Ministry of Food and Drug Safety Notice No. 2025-51; August 12, 2025; Partially Amended] 
Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (Innovative and Diagnostic Medical Devices Policy Division) 
 
Article 1 (Purpose) The purpose of this GMP is to prescribe the detailed requirements to be 
observed when manufacturing or importing in vitro diagnostic medical devices (including in vitro 
diagnostic medical devices for clinical performance studies) pursuant to Article 4, Article 5 (5), 
Article 7 (2), Article 10 (1), and Article 11 (4) of the Act on In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices, 
Article 6 (1) 1, Article 10 (1), Article 11, Article 13 (1) 2, Article 26 (1) 2, and Article 27 of the 
Enforcement Rule of the same Act, Article 13 (1), Article 15 (4) and (6), Article 28, and Article 45 
of the Medical Device Act, Article 27 (1) 10 and 11, Article 33 (1) 15, Article 48, Annex 2, and 
Annex 4 of the Enforcement Rule of the Medical Device Act, Article 24 (9) of the Act on the 
Promotion of the Medical Device Industry and Support for Innovative Medical Devices, and Article 
15 of the Regulations on the Support and Management of Innovative Medical Devices. 
 
Article 2 (Definitions) The terms used in this GMP shall have the meanings defined in Annex 1. 
 
Article 3 (Scope) (1) The scope of this GMP shall be as follows: 
1.  A person who intends to obtain approval or certification for manufacturing or import of in 
vitro diagnostic medical devices, or to submit a notification for such manufacturing or 
import; 
2.  A person who intends to manufacture or import in vitro diagnostic medical devices for 
clinical performance studies; 
3.  A holder of a manufacturing business license (“manufacturer”) or a holder of an import 
business license (hereinafter referred to as the “importer”) who applies for conformity 
recognition and periodic assessment (hereinafter referred to as the “conformity 
recognition assessment”). 
(2)  Notwithstanding subparagraphs 1 through 3 of paragraph (1), a person who intends to 
manufacture in vitro diagnostic medical devices for export (hereinafter referred to as the “in 
vitro diagnostic medical devices for export”) or a person who intends to manufacture or import 
Class I in vitro diagnostic medical devices shall comply with this GMP, but may be exempted 
from the conformity recognition assessment. 
 
Article 4 (Types of Conformity Recognition Assessment) (1) Conformity recognition under this 
GMP shall be conducted by classifying it as follows: 
1.  The initial assessment that a manufacturing site must undergo to be recognized as 
conforming to this GMP (hereinafter referred to as the “initial assessment”); 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
300 
 
2.  The assessment newly required when a manufacturing site adds in vitro diagnostic 
medical devices of another product group pursuant to Annex 3 (hereinafter referred to as 
the “additional assessment”); 
3.  The assessment that must be newly conducted to obtain conformity recognition due to a 
change in the location of a manufacturing site (hereinafter referred to as the “assessment 
for change”); provided, however, that changes to storage facilities or test laboratories that 
have little relevance to product quality, or changes to the location of in vitro diagnostic 
software manufacturing sites, are excluded. 
(2)  Each manufacturing site shall undergo one periodic assessment every three years for each 
product group listed in Annex 3. 
(3)  Notwithstanding Article 3 (2) and Article 4 (2), a manufacturing site may be exempted from 
periodic assessments when it has obtained conformity recognition for the following in vitro 
diagnostic medical devices: 
1.  In vitro diagnostic medical devices for export; 
2.  Class I in vitro diagnostic medical devices; 
3.  In vitro diagnostic medical devices for clinical performance studies. 
 
Article 5 (Criteria for Conformity Recognition Assessments) (1) The criteria for conformity 
recognition assessments shall be as specified in Annex 2. 
(2)  Notwithstanding paragraph (1), only part of Annex 2 may be applied in the following cases of 
each subparagraph: 
1.  For a person who intends to manufacture or import in vitro diagnostic medical devices for 
clinical performance studies, Sections 7.1, 7.3, 7.4.3, 7.5, 7.6, 8.2.6, and 8.3 shall be 
applied; 
2.  For an assessment for change under Article 4 (1) 3, Sections 4.1, 4.2, 6.1, 6.3, 6.4, 7.5, 
7.6, 8.2.2, 8.2.3, 8.2.6, 8.3, and 8.5 shall be applied; 
3.  Notwithstanding Article 3 (2), where conformity recognition assessments under this GMP 
are sought for Class I in vitro diagnostic medical devices, Sections 4.1, 4.2, 5.5, 6.4, 7.1, 
7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 8.2.1, 8.2.2, 8.2.3, 8.2.6, 8.3, and 8.5 shall be applied. 
 
Article 6 (Methods of Conformity Recognition Assessments) (1) Conformity recognition 
assessments shall be conducted jointly by the Commissioner of the Regional Office of Food and 
Drug Safety (hereinafter referred to as the “Commissioner of Regional Office”) and the head of the 
audit organization through document review and on-site inspection for each product group of the 
manufacturing site. Where the manufacturing process is carried out under an outsourcing 
arrangement between the legal manufacturer and the manufacturer (hereinafter referred to as the 
“legal manufacturer-manufacturer”), document review and on-site inspection may also be 
conducted separately for each of them. In such cases, on-site inspections shall not be limited to the 
core products under Article 7 (2). 
(2)  Notwithstanding paragraph (1), only document review shall be conducted in the following 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
301 
 
subparagraphs: 
1.  Where an additional assessment is conducted under Article 4 (1) 2; 
2.  Where an assessment for change is conducted based on the submission of data under 
Article 7 (1) 2 (b) for a manufacturing site whose location has been changed under Article 
4 (1) 3; 
3.  Where another manufacturer or importer has undergone document review and on-site 
inspection for the relevant manufacturing site under this GMP and holds a valid 
conformity recognition certificate; 
4.  Where a person has two or more manufacturing sites subject to periodic assessments 
under Article 4 (2), remaining manufacturing sites other than those selected for on-site 
inspection; 
5.  Where a medical device manufacturer or importer under the Medical Device Act has 
undergone document review and on-site inspection for the manufacturing site under the 
Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices and holds a valid conformity 
recognition certificate; 
6.  Where a manufacturer holds a quality management system conformity recognition 
certificate (hereinafter referred to as the “MDSAP conformity recognition certificate”) 
issued through an on-site inspection by an audit organization pursuant to the Medical 
Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP) under subparagraph 68 of Annex 1; 
7.  Where periodic assessments are conducted for Excellent Manufacturing Sites under 
subparagraph 69 of Annex 1. 
(3)  Notwithstanding paragraph (2), on-site inspection shall be conducted in any of the following cases: 
1.  Where a manufacturing site is deemed to present potential risks; 
2.  Where a manufacturer or importer is unable to submit the data required under Article 7 
(1) 2 for reasons such as trade secrets, and requests an on-site inspection; 
3.  Where a manufacturer holds a MDSAP conformity recognition certificate, in any of the 
following cases: 
(a)  A manufacturing sites subject to periodic assessments under Article 4 (2); 
(b)  A manufacturing site that the Minister of Food and Drug Safety recognizes as likely 
to affect public health, including cases where significant nonconformities are 
identified in conformity recognition assessments under the Medical Device Single 
Audit Program (MDSAP); 
(c)  A manufacturing site that produces in vitro diagnostic medical devices containing 
human-derived components or using human-derived tissues. 
(4)  Notwithstanding Article 4, a new initial assessment shall be required in any of the following cases: 
1.  Where the expiration date of the conformity recognition certificate held by a 
manufacturing site for export, Class I devices, or in vitro diagnostic medical devices for 
clinical performance studies has expired, and reapplication for conformity recognition is 
made; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
302 
 
2.  Where a manufacturing site holding conformity recognition for in vitro diagnostic 
medical devices for export intends to manufacture products for domestic sale; 
3.  Where the legal manufacturer in a legal manufacturer-manufacturer relationship that has 
undergone conformity recognition assessments is changed or removed; 
4.  Where the location of a manufacturing site that has obtained conformity recognition for in 
vitro diagnostic medical devices for clinical performance studies pursuant to Article 5 (2) 
1 is changed, or where in vitro diagnostic medical devices for clinical performance studies 
belonging to a different product group are added, or where such devices are intended to be 
manufactured or imported for the purpose of sale; 
5.  Where a manufacturing site that has obtained conformity recognition for Class I in vitro 
diagnostic medical devices pursuant to Article 5 (2) 3 intends to manufacture or import 
Class II, Class III, or Class IV in vitro diagnostic medical devices. 
(5)  The entities and methods for conducting conformity recognition assessments under paragraphs 
(1) through (4) shall be as provided in Annex 4. 
(6)  Where an on-site inspection cannot be conducted at a manufacturing site that is subject to such 
inspection due to circumstances such as war, infectious disease, natural disasters, or other 
similar events, the on-site inspection may be temporarily suspended and only a document 
review shall be conducted. 
(7)  Manufacturers or importers for whom only document review was conducted under paragraph 
(6) shall submit test reports conforming to their self-quality control test specifications for each 
manufacturing or import unit to the Commissioner of Regional Office at each instance of 
manufacture or import. 
(8)  In Article 11 (1) 1 and Article 27 (2) 2 of the Enforcement Rule of the Act on In Vitro 
Diagnostic Medical Devices (hereinafter referred to as the “Enforcement Rule”), the term “ a 
person prescribed and publicly notified by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety” means a 
manufacturer or a medical device manufacturer who has been recognized as conforming to the 
GMP system requirements pursuant to the texts of Article 5 (5) of the Act and Article 6 (4) of 
the Medical Device Act. 
(9)  Where tests or manufacturing processes for quality control are outsourced under Article 11 (2) 
of the Enforcement Rule, the consignor and the consignee shall faithfully fulfill their 
respective responsibilities and obligations as prescribed in any of the following subparagraphs: 
1.  The consignor shall provide the consignee with the GMP standards to be observed. 
2.  The consignee shall record manufacturing and quality control information for each product in 
accordance with the standards referred to in subparagraph 1. 
3.  The consignor shall receive the records referred to in subparagraph 2 from the consignee and 
retain them for one year from the date of expiration of the product’s shelf life (provided, 
however, that where no shelf life is specified, the records shall be retained for a period 
corresponding to the product’s service life). 
 
Article 7 (Application for Conformity Recognition Assessments) (1) A person who falls under 
any subparagraph of Article 3 (1) and seeks to undergo conformity recognition assessments under 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
303 
 
this GMP shall submit an application in Form 1, along with the following documents, to the head of 
the audit organization. In this case, the manufacturing site shall have quality control records for at 
least one manufacturing unit, and the preferred date for the on-site inspection shall be finalized and 
submitted at least 20 days before the inspection start date. 
1.  A copy of the manufacturing (import) business license for in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices or a copy of the conditional manufacturing (import) business license for in vitro 
diagnostic medical devices (excluding cases where no such initial assessment or license 
for manufacturing (importing) in vitro diagnostic medical devices (conditional) for 
clinical performance study is held). 
2.  The following documents corresponding to each item: 
(a)  An overview of the manufacturing site (including the name of the site and the 
address of each facility; if there are multiple sites, all site names must be included), 
organizational chart, number of employees, and in vitro diagnostic medical devices 
manufactured; 
(b)  A copy of the quality management system conformity certificate issued by the 
regulatory authority or an agency delegated by the regulatory authority (only 
applicable to Article 6 (2) and Article 6 (6)) and on-site inspection results (only 
applicable to Article 6 (2) 2 and Article 6 (6), including any follow-up actions taken 
in response to the inspection results); 
(c)  A description of facility conditions for each manufacturing site subject to assessment 
[including floor plans of work areas, test laboratories, and storage facilities (for 
software manufacturing sites, only if such work areas, test laboratories, or storage 
facilities exist), and lists of facilities and equipment], cleanroom procedures (if 
applicable), and procedures for monitoring and measurement equipment that specify 
monitoring cycles; 
(d)  The quality manual of the manufacturing site (including the quality policy); 
(e)  Procedures and test reports related to finished product testing (e.g., final release 
inspection) for the core product of the manufacturing site (including documentation 
demonstrating sterilization for sterile products); 
(f)  Purchasing and outsourcing procedures for the core product of the manufacturing 
site, names of major suppliers (including contracted suppliers), and scope of work; 
(g)  Device Master Records of the core product for the manufacturing site (including 
descriptions of specific manufacturing processes such as sterilization or software, as 
applicable), and procedures for validation of sterilization, where applicable; 
(h)  Checklist for Annex 2 criteria of the manufacturing site; 
(i)  Declaration of conformity to Annex 2 criteria of the manufacturing site; 
(j)  The designation certificate for the core innovative medical device. 
3.  Notwithstanding subparagraph 2, when undergoing assessment using the conformity 
recognition results obtained under the Medical Device Single Audit Program under Annex 
1, subparagraph 68 (hereinafter referred to as the “use of the Medical Device Single Audit 
Program”), the documents in any of the following items shall be submitted: 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
304 
 
(a)  A copy of the MDSAP conformity recognition certificate and the accompanying 
assessment results (including, where nonconformities were identified, the 
nonconformity report issued by the audit organization and the corrective and 
preventive action plan or results submitted by the manufacturing site that have been 
confirmed by the organization as compliant). 
(b)  Device Master Records for the product belonging to the highest classification level 
within each product group of the manufacturing site. 
 
Provided, however, that for an assessment for change, the Device Master Record 
shall be that of the product belonging to the highest classification level within the 
product group of the manufacturing site and having the highest manufacturing or 
import volume. 
(c)  The following documents related to the quality management system: 
1)  Quality manual of the manufacturing site; 
2)  Procedures related to record management; 
3)  Procedures that define the scope of responsibilities of the quality manager; 
4)  Procedures for managing medical devices subject to traceability (where 
applicable); 
5)  Procedures for adverse event reporting and advisory notices. 
(d)  Documents demonstrating the correlation between the products covered by the 
MDSAP conformity recognition certificate and the products subject to conformity 
recognition assessments. 
4.  Notwithstanding subparagraph 2, where a manufacturing site qualifies as an Excellent 
Manufacturing Site and undergoes a periodic assessment, the following documents shall 
be submitted in lieu of the documents required under subparagraph 2: 
(a)  Documentation confirming that the site falls under Annex 1, subparagraph 69 (d); 
(b)  The Device Master Record for the core product that belongs to the highest 
classification level within each product group of the manufacturing site and has the 
highest manufacturing or import volume; 
(c)  The following documents demonstrating the appropriateness of quality control over 
the past three years: 
1)  Procedures and test reports related to finished product testing (e.g., final release 
inspection) for the core product (including sterilization validation procedures and test 
reports for sterile products); 
2)  Documents on corrective and preventive actions taken in the last three years in 
accordance with the criteria set out in Annex 2; 
3)  Checklist under Annex 2 and declaration of conformity. 
(2)  The submission documents for the core product falling under Article 7 (1) 2 (e), (f), (g), and 
(h) shall be the documents for the products corresponding to each of the following 
subparagraphs. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
305 
 
1.  Where two or more products are submitted, the product belonging to the highest 
classification level within each product group of the manufacturing site shall be selected. 
2.  Notwithstanding subparagraph 1, in the case of a periodic assessment under Article 4 (2), 
the product belonging to the highest classification level of the manufacturing site and 
having the highest manufacturing or import volume among the products under the 
assessment shall be selected. 
3.  Notwithstanding subparagraph 1, in the case of an assessment for change under Article 4 
(3), the product belonging to the highest classification level within each product group of 
the manufacturing site and having the highest manufacturing or import volume shall be 
selected. 
(3)  A manufacturer or importer required to undergo a periodic assessment under Article 4 (2) shall 
apply for the periodic assessment to the head of the audit organization by submitting an 
application in Form 1, accompanied by the documents under Article 7 (1) 1 and 2, no later than 
three months before the expiration date stated on the conformity recognition certificate. In such 
cases, the desired on-site inspection date shall be fixed and applied for no later than 20 days 
before the expiration date stated on the conformity recognition certificate, and if the desired 
on-site inspection date is not confirmed at the time of application submission, the applicant 
shall submit the desired date in writing no later than 20 days before the start date of the 
requested on-site inspection. 
(4)  Where a manufacturer or importer has multiple manufacturing sites subject to periodic 
assessment under paragraph (3), a consolidated application for periodic assessment may be 
submitted. Provided, however, that manufacturing sites that received the conformity 
recognition certificate using the Medical Device Single Audit Program or those designated as 
Excellent Manufacturing Sites shall be excluded from periodic assessment consolidated 
applications. 
(5)  A person who intends to submit a consolidated periodic assessment application under 
paragraph (4) shall prepare the documents required under paragraph (3) and the manufacturing 
site summary sheet in Form 1, and submit them to the head of the audit organization. 
(6)  Where Article 6 (2) 3 applies because another manufacturer or importer holds a valid 
conformity recognition certificate for the relevant manufacturing site under this GMP, only the 
following documents among those required under paragraph (1) may be submitted along with 
the application in Form 1: 
1.  A copy of the manufacturing (import) business license for in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices or a copy of the conditional manufacturing (import) business license for in vitro 
diagnostic medical devices (excluding cases where no such initial assessment or license 
for manufacturing (importing) in vitro diagnostic medical devices (conditional) for 
clinical performance study is held). 
2.  The documents under Article 7 (1) 2 (g) (excluding sterilization validation procedures) 
and (h); 
3.  The document of the manufacturing site demonstrating that the products are manufactured 
under the same system at the same manufacturing site. 
(7)  When any of the following circumstances occurs, an Excellent Manufacturing Site under 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
306 
 
Annex 1, subparagraph 69, or a manufacturer or importer that has been issued a conformity 
recognition certificate under Article 6 (6) shall submit an application in Form 1 to the head of 
the audit organization within 10 days from the date of occurrence. In such cases, the applicant 
may omit the supporting documents for Form 1. 
1.  Where an Excellent Manufacturing Site no longer satisfies any of the criteria listed in 
Annex 1, subparagraph 69; 
2.  Where the conditions at the location or region of a manufacturing site for which an on-site 
inspection was deferred under Article 6 (6) have ended. 
(8)  If a person required to apply for a periodic assessment fails to do so at least three months 
before the expiration date under paragraph (3), the head of the audit organization shall report 
the name of the company, its representative, and other relevant information to the 
Commissioner of Regional Office. 
(9)  For manufacturing sites subject to on-site inspection under Article 6 (5), the documents listed 
in Article 7 (1) 2 (b), (h), and (i) may be omitted. 
(10) Costs and other matters related to conformity recognition assessments shall be governed by 
Annex 2 of the Enforcement Rule of the Medical Device Act. 
 
Article 8 (Procedures for Conformity Recognition Assessments) (1) Upon receiving an 
application for conformity recognition and related assessments under Article 7, the head of the audit 
organization shall, in accordance with the following subparagraphs, report the receipt and request 
confirmation of whether an on-site inspection is required under Article 6 (3) from the Commissioner 
of Regional Office. Provided, however, that where the assessment entity is single-agency under 
Article 6 (5) and Annex 4, and Article 6 (6) does not apply, reporting the receipt to the 
Commissioner of Regional Office may be omitted. 
1.  The head shall verify within five days whether all required documents under Article 7 (1) 
through (6) have been submitted, and if complete, shall report and request within seven 
days after receipt. 
2.  If, as a result of confirming whether the supporting documents under subparagraph 1 have 
been submitted, any deficiency such as missing supporting documents is identified, the 
applicant shall be requested to supplement them by setting a supplementation deadline for 
the submission of such documents in accordance with the Administrative Procedures Act. 
3.  Notwithstanding subparagraph 1, where an application additionally includes a confirmed 
desired on-site inspection date, the report and request shall be made no later than the day 
following the receipt of the application. 
(2)  Within ten days after receiving the report and request under paragraph (1), the Commissioner 
of Regional Office shall determine the need for on-site inspection under Article 6 (3), the 
assessment entity under Article 6 (5), and the assessment method, and shall notify the head of 
the audit organization, who shall in turn notify the applicant. 
(3)  The head of the audit organization shall notify the applicant in writing of the conformity 
recognition assessment results under Article 6 within 30 days from the date the application for 
conformity recognition was received. Provided, however, that if an on-site inspection is required 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
307 
 
under paragraph (2), the period from the date of notification to the applicant until the start of the 
on-site inspection under this paragraph shall not be included in the processing period. 
(4)  Where an on-site inspection is required under paragraph (2), the head of the audit organization 
shall conduct the on-site inspection in accordance with the following subparagraphs: 
1.  The assessment entity determined under paragraph (2) shall conduct the on-site inspection 
on the notified inspection date, and the head of the audit organization shall notify the 
applicant in writing of the results within seven days from the end of the inspection visit or 
within the processing period under paragraph (3). Provided, however, that if the results of 
the on-site inspection are determined to be nonconforming, the Commissioner of Regional 
Office shall be notified immediately. 
2.  If an on-site inspection under subparagraph 1 cannot be conducted due to war, epidemics, 
natural disasters, or other similar circumstances during the inspection period, or if the 
inspection cannot proceed normally due to delayed or refused submission of inspection 
documents, the on-site inspection may be suspended. In such cases, the applicant shall be 
immediately notified in writing of the reasons for the suspension, and the Commissioner 
of Regional Office shall be notified accordingly. 
3.  When the reason for suspension under subparagraph 2 is confirmed to be resolved, the on-
site inspection may resume, and the results shall be notified to the applicant in writing 
within seven days from the completion date of the resumed inspection or within the 
processing period under paragraph (3). 
(5)  Where the head of the audit organization is unable to notify the applicant of the conformity 
recognition assessment results within the processing period under paragraphs (3) and (4) due to 
unavoidable reasons such as natural disasters, the head shall notify the applicant in advance of 
the delay. 
(6)  Where the results of the conformity recognition assessments fall under Annex 2, Section 9.4 (2) 
(a) 2, the head of the audit organization shall take the actions in any of the following 
subparagraphs: 
1.  Require the applicant to submit corrective documentation and a corrective action plan, 
and evaluate conformity within 15 days from the end of the conformity recognition 
assessment. 
2.  Review the documents submitted under subparagraph 1 and notify the applicant in writing 
of the results. 
3.  If the applicant fails to submit the required documents within 15 days or the submitted 
documents are not adequate, supplementary measures shall be taken in accordance with 
paragraph (7). 
4.  If the applicant fails to submit the implementation results of corrective actions under 
subparagraph 1 within three months or the submitted results are inadequate, the head of 
the audit organization shall immediately report to the Commissioner of Regional Office 
and notify the applicant in writing. 
(6)  Where matters requiring supplementation are identified, the head of the audit organization shall 
take the following actions with respect to the results of the conformity recognition assessment: 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
308 
 
1.  Supplementation procedures and deadlines shall be required in accordance with the Civil 
Petitions Treatment Act, and the assessment entity under paragraph (2) shall review the 
results submitted by the applicant and evaluate conformity. 
2.  If the applicant fails to submit the required documents within the deadline, the assessment 
entity shall determine as nonconforming. 
3.  Where an application is determined nonconforming under subparagraph 2, the fact shall 
be reported immediately to the Commissioner of Regional Office, and the applicant shall 
be notified in writing. 
(8)  The head of the audit organization shall prepare a result report in Form 3 and submit it to the 
Commissioner of Regional Office in accordance with the following subparagraphs. Provided, 
however, that submission may be omitted where the assessment entity is single-agency under 
Article 6 (5) and Annex 4, and the case does not fall under Article 6 (6). 
1.  Assessment results under paragraph (3) shall be submitted within the processing period 
prescribed in paragraph (3). 
2.  Assessment results under paragraph (4) 1 shall be submitted within seven days from the 
end of the on-site inspection. 
3.  Where the on-site inspection is resumed pursuant to paragraph (4) 3, the results shall be 
submitted within seven days from the end of the resumed inspection visit or within the 
processing period under paragraph (3). 
(9)  Where the results of conformity recognition assessments under Article 6 are conforming, the 
head of the audit organization shall issue the Certificate of GMP (Form 2 or Form 2-2, 
pursuant to Annex 5) (hereinafter referred to as the “certificate of conformity”) to the applicant. 
Provided, however, that the certificate may be issued in any case of the following 
subparagraphs: 
1.  Where the conformity recognition assessment results fall under Annex 2, 9.4 (2) (a) 2, a 
conditional certificate of conformity may be issued on the condition that corrective 
actions are implemented within three months; 
2.  Where document review is deemed to conform under Article 6 (6), a temporary certificate 
of conformity may be issued. 
(10) Where an applicant objects to the assessment results under Article 6, the applicant may file an 
objection with the head of the relevant audit organization in accordance with the Civil Petitions 
Treatment Act. 
(11) When an objection is filed under paragraph (9), the head of the audit organization shall report 
both the content of the objection and the handling results to the head of the Commissioner of 
Regional Office. 
(12) Where multiple manufacturing sites are submitted as a consolidated periodic assessment 
application under Article 7 (4), the Commissioner of Regional Office and the head of the audit 
organization shall conduct an on-site inspection for one manufacturing site, selected by 
comprehensively considering the following criteria: 
1.  A manufacturing site that produces the product of the highest class; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
309 
 
2.  A manufacturing site with high domestic production or import volume; 
3.  A manufacturing site that has not previously undergone an on-site inspection. 
(13) For manufacturing sites that apply for conformity recognition assessments under Article 7 (7), 
the head of the audit organization shall conduct an on-site inspection within three months from 
the date of application. 
 
Article 9 (Expiration Date of the Certificate of Conformity) (1) The expiration date of a 
certificate of conformity issued following an initial assessment shall be three years from the date of 
issuance. Provided, however, that the Minister of Food and Drug Safety may extend this period 
where deemed necessary. 
(2)  When conformity recognition is granted following an additional assessment or an assessment 
for change, the existing expiration date shall remain unaffected. 
(3)  The expiration date of a certificate of conformity issued following a periodic assessment shall 
be three years from the day after the expiration date of the previous certificate. Provided, 
however, that where the certificate is issued after the previous expiration date, or where the 
periodic assessment was submitted as a consolidated application, the expiration date shall be 
three years from the issuance date. Where conformity recognition assessments have been 
conducted pursuant to Article 6 (2) 3 or 5, the expiration date for the relevant manufacturing 
site shall be set to match the expiration date of the manufacturer or importer that previously 
underwent conformity recognition assessments. Where conformity recognition assessments 
have been conducted based on the documents under Article 7 (1) 3, the expiration date for the 
relevant manufacturing site shall be set to be identical to that of the MDSAP conformity 
recognition certificate. 
 
Article 10 (Reissuance of the Certificate of Conformity) (1) A manufacturer or importer who has 
been issued a certificate of conformity under Article 8 (9) may apply to the audit organization that 
issued the certificate for reissuance if the certificate is lost or otherwise needs to be reissued. 
(2)  Upon receiving an application for reissuance under paragraph (1), the head of the audit 
organization shall reissue the certificate of conformity in accordance with Annex 5. 
(3)  A manufacturer or importer may either obtain reissuance of the certificate of conformity or 
record the changes in any of the following subparagraphs on the reverse side of the certificate 
for control purposes: 
1.  Change in the name of the manufacturing or importing business; 
2.  Change in the location of the manufacturing site (limited to changes under the proviso of 
Article 4 (1) 3); 
3.  Change in the location of an importing business; 
4.  Change in the trade name of the legal manufacturer 
5.  Change in the location of the legal manufacturer (limited to changes under the proviso of 
Article 4 (1) 3); 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
310 
 
6.  Change in the manufacturer’s trade name; 
7.  Change in the manufacturer’s location (limited to changes under the proviso of Article 4 
(1) 3). 
(4)  Where a manufacturer or importer records changes on the reverse side of the certificate of 
conformity under paragraph (3), the date and details of the approval of change shall also be 
recorded. 
(5)  A manufacturer or importer who has been issued a certificate of conformity under Article 8 (9) 
1 may apply to the issuing audit organization for replacement of the certificate only after 
corrective actions have been completed, and may receive a replacement certificate accordingly. 
 
Article 11 (Return of the Certificate of Conformity) (1) A manufacturer or importer who has 
been issued a certificate of conformity under Article 8 (9) may return the certificate to the issuing 
audit organization, specifying the relevant reasons in detail, when any of the following 
circumstances occurs: 
1.  Where the manufacturing business license or import business license is revoked; 
2.  Where the manufacturing approval, import approval, manufacturing certification, or 
import certification is revoked; 
3.  Where any other reasons exist requiring the manufacturer or importer to return the 
certificate of conformity. 
(2)  In accordance with paragraph (1), the head of a quality management examination agency, etc. 
who has received the return of the certificate of conformity shall, immediately upon receipt of 
the returned certificate of conformity, report the fact of its return to the Commissioner of 
Regional Office. 
 
Article 12 (Marking for Conformity Recognition Assessments) A manufacturer or importer may 
affix the conformity recognition marking, as specified in Annex 6, to in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices that belong to the same product group as the manufacturing site which has undergone 
conformity recognition assessments. 
 
Article 13 (Duties of the Audit Organization) The duties of the audit organization under Article 4 
of the Act on In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices and Article 48 of the Enforcement Rule of the 
Medical Device Act shall be as follows: 
1.  Conducting conformity recognition assessments under the Good Manufacturing Practice 
for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices; 
2.  Issuing certificates of conformity; 
3.  Compiling statistics and providing administrative support related to conformity 
recognition assessments; 
4.  Other matters necessary for conformity recognition assessments. 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
311 
 
Article 14 (Reporting) (1) The head of the audit organization shall submit the quarterly report on 
the results of conformity recognition assessments for in vitro diagnostic medical devices (Form 4) 
and the detailed list of such assessment results (Form 5) to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
and the Commissioner of Regional Office within 20 days after the end of each quarter. Provided, 
however, that where the Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the Commissioner of Regional Office 
requests separate data, the relevant data shall be submitted within seven days from the date of the 
request. 
(2)  Where there are personnel changes, such as transfers or resignations of assessors, the head of 
the audit organization shall report such changes to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
within seven days. 
 
Article 15 (Review of Regulation) Pursuant to Article 8 of the Framework Act on Administrative 
Regulations, the validity of this GMP shall be reviewed every three years as of July 1, 2020 (that is, 
by June 30 of every third year), and necessary improvements shall be made. 
 
Article 16 (Review Deadline) The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall review the validity of 
this Notice every three years as of January 1, 2024 (that is, by December 31 of every third year), 
pursuant to the Regulation on the Issuance and Management of Directives and Established Rules, 
and shall take necessary measures for improvement. 
 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2025-51, Aug. 12, 2025> 
This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
 
[Annex 1]  Definitions 
[Annex 2]  Criteria for Conformity Recognition Assessments of In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
[Annex 3]  GMP Product Groups for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
[Annex 4]  Entities and Methods for Conformity Recognition Assessments 
[Annex 5]  Issuance and Management of Certificates of Conformity 
[Annex 6]  Marking of Conformity Recognition Assessment 
[Form 1]  
Application for Conformity Recognition Assessment for In Vitro Diagnostic 
Medical Devices 
[Form 2]  
Certificate of GMP for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
[Form 3]  
Report on the Results of Conformity Recognition Assessment for In Vitro 
Diagnostic Medical Devices 
[Form 4]  
Periodic Report on the Results of Conformity Recognition Assessment for In 
Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
[Form 5]  
List of the Results of Conformity Recognition Assessment for In Vitro Diagnostic 
Medical Devices 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
312 
 
[Annex 1] 
Definitions 
(Related to Article 2) 
 
1.  “Audit” means a systematic and independent verification activity conducted to determine 
whether quality-related work and its associated results conform to planned arrangements and 
whether such arrangements have been effectively implemented and are suitable for achieving 
the intended objectives. 
2.  “Verification” means confirmation, through the provision of objective evidence (data 
demonstrating the existence of something or substantiating a fact) and testing, that specified 
requirements have been fulfilled.  
3.  “Review” means an activity conducted to determine the suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness 
of a subject in order to achieve established objectives. 
4.  “Management Review” means an activity conducted by top management at planned intervals 
to evaluate the need for changes to, and the potential for improvement of, the quality 
management system, including the quality policy and quality objectives, in order to ensure its 
continuing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness. 
5.  “Customer” means a collective term for purchasers and users (patients and healthcare 
professionals).  
6.  “Customer Property” means assets owned by the customer, which include each of the 
following items: 
(a)  Raw materials or components (including packaging materials) provided for inclusion in 
the product;  
(b)  Products supplied for repair, maintenance, or upgrading; 
(c)  Products supplied for additional processes (such as packaging, sterilization, or testing 
using customer-provided materials); 
(d)  Services provided on behalf of the customer (e.g., transportation of customer property to a 
third party); 
(e)  Customer intellectual property (e.g., specifications, drawings, and asset information). 
7.  “Supplier” means an individual or organization that provides all or part of components, 
processes, or services. 
8.  “Calibration” means the operation that confirms that a specific device or instrument produces 
results within the prescribed limits when measured against measurement standards recognized 
under international or national standards. 
9.  “Advisory notice” means a communication issued by the manufacturing site after delivery of 
an in vitro diagnostic medical device for the purpose of providing additional information or 
recommending actions regarding the use, change, return, or disposal of the in vitro diagnostic 
medical device. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
313 
 
10.  “Record” means a document that states achieved results or provides evidence of activities 
performed.  
11.  “Infrastructure” means the system of facilities, equipment, and services required for the 
operation of an organization. 
12.  “Single-agency Assessment” means conducting an on-site inspection for conformity 
recognition assessments solely by the audit organization. 
13.  “Sterilization” means a process that uses physical or chemical methods to destroy all types of 
microorganisms, including spores. 
14.  “Sterile Barrier System” means the minimum packaging that prevents microbial ingress and 
ensures that the product is presented sterile at the point of use. 
15.  “Sterilized Device” means an in vitro diagnostic medical device that undergoes a sterilization 
process during manufacturing process and is labeled as sterilized on the product container or 
packaging with indications such as the word “sterile,” the sterilization method, and the 
expiration date. 
16.  “Document” means criteria or procedures that are specified or created prior to performing an 
activity. 
17.  “Batch” means a specified quantity of products produced during a defined manufacturing 
cycle, intended to have uniform characteristics and quality. 
18.  “Complaint” means any written, electronic, or oral communication alleging defects related to 
the identification, quality, durability, reliability, usability, safety, or performance of an in vitro 
diagnostic medical device after it has left the organization’s control, or alleging defects in 
services that affect the performance of such devices. 
19.  “Service” means an intangible output of an organization involving activities that necessarily 
occur between the organization and the customer, such as decision-making, relationship-
maintenance activities, repair, transportation, and information delivery. 
20.  “Senior Quality Auditor” means a person who is affiliated with the audit organization 
designated by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety and who oversees conformity recognition 
assessment activities. 
21.  “Design and Development” means a set of processes that transforms requirements into 
specified characteristics or into the specifications of a product, process, or system.  
22.  “Installation” means the activities of placing a product at the site of use and enabling it to 
operate in accordance with its intended purpose, including arrangements such as piping and 
waste disposal. 
23.  “Performance Evaluation” means the assessment and data analysis conducted to identify or 
verify the ability of an in vitro diagnostic medical device to achieve its intended use. 
24.  “Cleaning” means a chemical or physical method used to remove contaminants or 
microorganisms from surfaces. 
25.  “Life Cycle” means all stages of the life of an in vitro diagnostic medical device, from initial 
conception to final disposal and processing. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
314 
 
26.  “Correction” means an action taken to eliminate a detected nonconformity. 
27.  “Corrective Action” means an action taken to eliminate the cause of a detected nonconformity 
or other undesirable situation. 
28.  “Identification” means the activities performed at all stages—including raw materials, 
materials, in-process products, and finished products—to ensure product traceability and 
proper transfer to the next process or shipment. 
29.  “Safety” means the property of being free from hazards or the risk of malfunction, and of 
ensuring safe performance. 
30.  “Preventive Action” means an action taken to eliminate the cause of a potential nonconformity 
or other undesirable situation to prevent its occurrence. 
31.  “Requirement” means an expressed need or expectation, generally one that is implicit or 
obligatory.  
32.  “Manufacturing Site of Potential Concern” means a manufacturing site that falls under any of 
the following cases: 
(a)  If the applicant manufacturing site has failed a GMP assessment within the past three 
years; 
(b)  If the product group subject to the application has been found noncompliant in quality 
based on sampling inspection results within the past three years; 
(c)  If the product subject to the application has been subject to compulsory recall, suspension 
of use, suspension of manufacturing, or similar regulatory actions by domestic or foreign 
government authorities within the past three years. 
33.  “Risk Management” means an advanced safety management system that analyzes and 
evaluates all risks that may arise throughout the entire lifecycle of an in vitro diagnostic 
medical device—including design, production, distribution, and use—and manages those risks 
to an acceptable level.  
34.  “Validation” means the act of verifying and documenting that methods of manufacturing and 
quality control—including the structure and facilities of the manufacturing site, manufacturing 
processes, and systems—achieve the intended results. 
35.  “Revalidation” means validation activities that are conducted either periodically or in response 
to changes to raw materials, manufacturing processes, machinery and equipment, or 
manufacturing systems that may have an impact on product quality. 
36.  Deleted 
37.  “Rework” means an operation performed to bring a nonconforming product into conformity 
with quality standards by applying a method different from the established manufacturing 
process. 
38.  “Conformity Recognition Assessments” means assessments conducted to determine whether 
an in vitro diagnostic medical device can be consistently manufactured with a high level of 
assurance of safety, effectiveness, and quality appropriate for its intended use. 
39.  “Procedure” means an established method for performing an activity or process.  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
315 
 
40.  “Manufacturing” means all operations required to produce in vitro diagnostic medical device, 
including design, packaging, and labeling. 
41.  “Manufacturing Process” means the activities related to the design and development, 
procurement of raw materials, incoming inspection, production, in-process inspection, finished 
product inspection, packaging, labeling, shipment, and storage for the manufacture of in vitro 
diagnostic medical device. 
42.  “Manufacturing Unit” or “Lot” means a unit of finished products, components, or raw 
materials manufactured under the same manufacturing conditions and having uniform 
characteristics and quality. 
43.  “Legal Manufacturer” means a person who, under a contractual relationship, entrusts all or the 
principal manufacturing processes of an in vitro diagnostic medical device falling under any of 
the following items to a manufacturer under subparagraph 44 and bears statutory responsibility 
therefor.  
(a)  An in vitro diagnostic medical device that has obtained, or intends to obtain, authorization 
or certification from the Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
(b)  An in vitro diagnostic medical device that has submitted, or intends to submit, a 
notification to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
44.  “Manufacturer” means a person who performs all operations necessary to produce an in vitro 
diagnostic medical device, or a person who, under a contractual relationship, is entrusted by 
the legal manufacturer with the principal manufacturing processes of the product.  
45.  “Product” means the output of a process and includes each of the following items: 
(a)  Hardware; 
(b)  Software; 
(c)  Processed materials; 
(d)  Services. 
46.  “Production Realization” means the combined sequence of processes and detailed processes 
required to achieve a product. 
47.  “Device Master Record (DMR)” means a document that contains detailed information on all 
manufacturing processes—from product design to shipment (installation)—including 
specifications, manufacturing processes, manufacturing criteria, and installation, for each in 
vitro diagnostic medical device item or model. 
48.  “Organization” means a group of personnel and facilities with an established arrangement of 
responsibilities, authorities, and interrelationships. 
49.  “Critical/Core Process” means a process in which an intermediate product at a particular stage 
acquires the form of a finished in vitro diagnostic medical device and, even after further 
processing, its configuration or performance remains unchanged. 
50.  “Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Digital Medical Devices” means 
a quality management system that prescribes the requirements to be observed to ensure the 
quality of in vitro diagnostic medical devices throughout all processes—from development and 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
316 
 
procurement of raw materials to manufacturing, testing, packaging, installation, storage, 
shipment, and the handling of complaints or returns—so that products of consistently high 
quality may be supplied.  
51.  “Traceability” means identifying and managing the sources of raw materials and components 
of an in vitro diagnostic medical device, its quality control history, and information on its 
distributors and users (locations). 
52.  “Measuring Equipment” means measuring instruments, software, measurement standards, 
reference materials, auxiliary devices, or combinations thereof required to carry out a 
measurement process. 
53.  “Concession” means written approval to use or release a specific product that has minor 
nonconformities not directly related to safety or effectiveness, provided that statutory 
requirements are met. 
54.  “Product Group” means a set of products that share similar raw materials, manufacturing 
processes, and quality control systems. 
55.  “Quality” means the degree to which a set of inherent characteristics fulfills requirements. 
56.  “Quality Management System” means a management system for efficiently managing the 
organization, responsibilities, procedures, processes, and resources for product quality 
management. 
57.  “Quality Control (QC)” means the part of quality management that focuses on fulfilling quality 
requirements. 
58.  “Quality Manual” means a document that defines the manufacturer’s quality management 
system and describes the details or requirements appropriate to the scale and complexity of the 
organization. 
59.  “Quality Objective” means a target or objective that is pursued with respect to quality. 
60.  “Quality Policy” means the overall intentions and direction of an organization related to 
quality, as formally expressed by top management.  
61.  “Quality Nonconformity” means a case in which an in vitro diagnostic medical device 
manufactured or imported for the purpose of sale by an in vitro diagnostic medical device 
manufacturer or importer is found to be nonconforming as a result of inspection under Article 
32 or Article 33 of the Medical Device Act. 
62.  “Quality Auditor” means a person affiliated with the audit organization designated by the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety who conducts conformity recognition assessment activities. 
63.  “Process” means a set of interrelated or interacting activities that transforms inputs into 
outputs. 
64.  “Joint” means that the on-site inspection for conformity recognition assessments is conducted 
jointly by the MFDS and an audit organization, or by the Regional Office of Food and Drug 
Safety and an audit organization. 
65.  ‘Innovative Medical Device Software’ means medical device software designated as an 
innovative medical device and developed and manufactured as stand-alone software. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
317 
 
66.  “Effectiveness” means the extent to which planned activities are realized and planned results 
are achieved. 
67.  “Efficiency” means the ratio or relationship between the results achieved and the resources 
used. 
68.  “Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP)” means a system in which the results of 
conformity recognition and related audits conducted by audit organizations (AO) jointly 
designated and operated by participating jurisdictions, including the United States and Japan, 
are mutually recognized by multiple countries. 
69.  “Excellent Manufacturing Site” means a manufacturing site that satisfies all of the following 
items: 
(a)  It is not classified as a Manufacturing Site of Potential Concern under subparagraph 32; 
(b)  It has not been subject to administrative dispositions under the Act on In Vitro Diagnostic 
Medical Devices or the Medical Device Act within the past three years; 
(c)  During the most recent periodic assessment, an on-site inspection was conducted and the 
result was ‘conforming’; 
(d)  For imported in vitro diagnostic medical devices, where the applicant holds a valid 
certificate of conformity to the quality management system issued by the regulatory 
authority or an organization delegated by the regulatory authority, and can demonstrate 
that all corrective actions for any nonconformities identified in the certificate have been 
completed. 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
318 
 
[Annex 2] 
Criteria for Conformity Recognition Assessments of In Vitro 
Diagnostic Medical Devices 
(Related to Article 5 and 6) 
 
1.  Purpose 
 
The purpose of the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical 
Devices is to specify the requirements of the quality management system applied to the design 
and development, production, installation, and servicing of in vitro diagnostic medical devices 
by manufacturers or by manufacturing sites of imported in vitro diagnostic medical devices 
(hereinafter referred to as the “organization”). 
 
2.  Scope of Application 
 
Where, due to the activities performed by the organization or the characteristics of in vitro 
medical devices to which this GMP apply, any requirement under Chapter 6 (Resource 
Management), Chapter 7 (Production Realization), or Chapter 8 (Measurement, Analysis, and 
Improvement) is not applicable, the organization may exclude such requirement from its 
quality management system. Provided, however, that the organization shall document the 
justification for each excluded requirement in accordance with Section 4.2.2. 
 
3.  Definitions  
(a)  With respect to the requirements in this GMP that are limited to those “where applicable,” 
the organization shall be deemed applicable unless it otherwise provides reasonable 
justification. 
(b)  Where a requirement in this GMP is stated as “shall document,” it also includes the 
requirement to establish, implement, and maintain the corresponding content. 
(c)  In applying this GMP, the definitions of other terms shall be in accordance with Annex 1. 
 
4. 
Quality Management System 
4.1  General Requirements 
4.1.1 (a) The organization shall document its quality management system in accordance with the 
requirements of this GMP and applicable statutory requirements, and shall maintain the 
effectiveness of the quality management system.  
(b)  The organization shall establish, implement, and maintain specific requirements, 
procedures, activities, or methods of operation that must be documented pursuant to this 
GMP and applicable statutory requirements.  
(c)  The organization shall document the roles required to perform in accordance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
319 
 
4.1.2 The organization shall implement the following: 
1)  Determine the processes necessary for the quality management system, taking into 
account the roles performed by the organization, and apply those processes throughout the 
organization; 
2)  Apply a risk-based approach to the appropriate management of processes required for the 
quality management system; 
3)  Determine the sequence and interaction of those processes. 
 
4.1.3 For the processes of the quality management system, the organization shall perform the 
following: 
1)  Determine the criteria and methods necessary to ensure the effective operation and control 
of the processes; 
2)  Ensure the availability of information and resources necessary to support the operation 
and monitoring of the processes; 
3)  Take necessary actions to achieve planned results and maintain the effectiveness of the 
processes; 
4)  Monitor such processes and, where applicable, measure and analyze them; 
5)  Prepare and maintain the records necessary to demonstrate conformity with this GMP and 
compliance with applicable statutory requirements. 
 
4.1.4 The organization shall control quality management system processes in conformity with this 
GMP and applicable statutory requirements. Where such processes are to be changed, the 
organization shall perform the following: 
1)  Evaluate whether the change to the process affects the quality management system; 
2)  Evaluate whether the change to the process affects the in vitro diagnostic medical devices 
produced under the quality management system; 
3)  Control such matters in accordance with this GMP and applicable statutory requirements. 
 
4.1.5 (a) Where the organization outsources any process that affects product conformity 
requirements, it shall ensure that such processes are monitored and controlled.  
(b)  The organization shall retain responsibility for ensuring compliance with this GMP, 
customer requirements, and applicable statutory requirements for outsourced processes. 
(c)  Control of outsourced processes shall be proportionate to the associated risks and to the 
capability of the contracted supplier to meet the requirements under paragraph 7.4, and 
shall include a written quality agreement. 
 
4.1.6 (a) The organization shall document procedures for the validation of computer software used 
in the quality management system.  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
320 
 
(b)  Such software shall be validated prior to initial use, and where applicable, shall also be 
validated following any changes to the software or its application. 
(c)  Specific approaches and activities related to software validation and revalidation shall be 
proportionate to the risks associated with the use of the software.  
(d)  Records of these activities shall be maintained.  
 
4.2  Documentation Requirements 
4.2.1 General Requirements 
 
Documentation of the quality management system shall include the following: 
1)  Documented quality policy and quality objectives; 
2)  Quality Manual; 
3)  Documented procedures and records required by this GMP; 
4)  Documents, including records, determined by the organization to be necessary to ensure 
the effective planning, operation, and control of its processes; 
5)  Any additional documentation required by applicable statutory requirements. 
 
4.2.2 Quality Manual 
(a)  The organization shall document a quality manual that includes the following: 
1)  The scope of the quality management system, including details of any exclusions or 
non-applications and their justification; 
2)  Documented procedures established for the quality management system and 
reference to such documents; 
3)  A description of the interactions between processes of the quality management 
system. 
(b)  The quality manual shall briefly specify the structure of the documents used in the quality 
management system. 
 
4.2.3 In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Device File 
(a)  For each in vitro diagnostic medical device model or item, the organization shall establish 
and maintain one or more files containing or referencing documents generated to 
demonstrate conformity with this GMP and compliance with applicable statutory 
requirements. 
(b)  The contents of the in vitro diagnostic medical device file shall include, but not be limited 
to, the following:  
1)  A general description of the in vitro diagnostic medical device, including its intended 
use/purpose and all instructions for use; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
321 
 
2)  Product specifications; 
3)  Specifications and procedures for manufacturing, packaging, storage, handling, and 
distribution; 
4)  Measurement and monitoring procedures; 
5)  Installation requirements, where applicable; 
6)  Servicing procedures, where applicable. 
 
4.2.4 Control of Documents 
(a)  Documents required by the quality management system shall be controlled. Records are a 
special type of document and shall be controlled in accordance with Section 4.2.5.  
(b)  Procedures necessary to control the following shall be documented: 
1)  Review and approval of documents for adequacy prior to issuance; 
2)  Review, update, and re-approval of documents as necessary; 
3)  Ensure that changes to documents and the current revision status are identified; 
4)  Ensure that applicable versions of documents are available at points of use;  
5)  Ensure that documents remain legible and readily identifiable;  
6)  Ensure that documents of external origin determined by the organization to be 
necessary for the planning and operation of the quality management system are 
identified and their distribution controlled; 
7)  Prevent deterioration or loss of documents; 
8)  Preventing the unintended use of obsolete documents and applying appropriate 
identification if they are retained for any purpose. 
(c)  The organization shall ensure that document changes are reviewed and approved by the 
original approving authority or another designated authority with access to background 
information on which the organization’s decisions are based. 
(d)  The organization shall retain at least one copy of obsolete controlled documents for a 
period corresponding to the product’s life cycle, which shall be no less than the retention 
period required for records. 
 
4.2.5 Control of Records 
(a)  Records shall be established and maintained to demonstrate the effective operation of the 
quality management system and conformity to requirements.  
(b)  The organization shall document procedures defining the controls needed for the 
identification, storage, security and integrity, retrieval, retention period, and disposition of 
records.  
(c)  The organization shall establish and implement methods to protect personal health 
information contained in records in accordance with applicable statutory requirements. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
322 
 
(d)  All records shall be easily legible, readily identifiable, and retrievable. Any changes to 
records shall remain identifiable. 
(e)  The organization shall retain records for a period corresponding to the product’s life 
cycle. This period shall be at least five years from the date of manufacture and at least two 
years after release to the market. 
 
5.  Management Responsibility 
5.1  Management Commitment 
 
Top management shall demonstrate its commitment to the development and implementation of 
the quality management system and to maintaining its effectiveness through the following:  
1)  Communicate the importance of fulfilling customer requirements and applicable statutory 
requirements with the organization; 
2)  Establish the quality policy; 
3)  Ensure that quality objectives are established; 
4)  Conduct management reviews; 
5)  Ensure the availability of resources. 
 
5.2  Customer Focus 
 
Top management shall ensure that customer requirements and applicable statutory 
requirements are determined and fulfilled. 
 
5.3  Quality Policy 
 
Top management shall ensure that the quality policy: 
1)  Is appropriate to the purpose of the organization; 
2)  Includes a commitment to comply with requirements and to maintain the effectiveness of 
the quality management system; 
3)  Provides a framework for establishing and reviewing quality objectives; 
4)  Is communicated and understood within the organization; 
5)  Is reviewed for continuing suitability. 
 
5.4  Planning 
5.4.1 Quality Objectives 
(a)  Top management shall ensure that the quality objectives include the necessary elements to 
meet applicable statutory requirements and product requirements, and that they are 
established at relevant functions and levels within the organization.  
(b)  The quality objectives shall be measurable and shall be consistent with the quality policy. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
323 
 
5.4.2 Planning of the Quality Management System 
 
Top management shall ensure the following: 
1)  The planning of the quality management system is carried out not only to achieve the 
quality objectives but also to meet the requirements of Section 4.1;  
2)  The integrity of the quality management system is maintained when changes to the 
quality management system are planned and implemented.  
 
5.5  Responsibility, Authority, and Communication 
5.5.1 Responsibility and Authority 
(a)  Top management shall ensure that responsibilities and authorities within the organization 
are defined, documented, and communicated. 
(b)  Top management shall document the interrelationships of all personnel who manage, 
perform, and verify work affecting quality, and shall ensure the authority and 
independence necessary to perform such work. 
 
5.5.2 Quality Manager 
 
Top management shall appoint a person within the organization who, irrespective of other 
responsibilities, has the authority and responsibility to perform the following: 
1)  Ensure that the processes necessary for the quality management system are documented; 
2)  Report to top management on the performance and effectiveness of the quality 
management system and on the need for improvement; 
3)  Ensure that awareness of applicable statutory requirements and quality management 
system requirements is promoted throughout the organization. 
 
5.5.3 Internal Communication 
 
Top management shall ensure that appropriate communication processes are established within 
the organization and that communication regarding the effectiveness of the quality 
management system is carried out. 
 
5.6  Management Review 
5.6.1 General Requirements 
(a)  The organization shall document the procedure for management review.  
(b)  Top management shall review the quality management system at documented planned 
intervals to ensure its continuing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness.  
(c)  Management reviews shall evaluate the need for changes to the quality management 
system, including the quality policy and quality objectives, and shall identify 
opportunities for improvement. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
324 
 
(d)  Records of management reviews shall be maintained. 
 
5.6.2 Review Inputs 
 
The inputs to management review shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
1)  Feedback; 
2)  Handling of complaints; 
3)  Reports to regulatory authorities; 
4)  Audits; 
5)  Monitoring and measurement of processes; 
6)  Monitoring and measurement of product; 
7)  Corrective action; 
8)  Preventive action; 
9)  Follow-up actions from previous management reviews; 
10)  Changes that could affect the quality management system; 
11)  Recommendations for improvement; 
12)  New or revised applicable statutory requirements. 
 
5.6.3 Review Outputs 
 
The outputs of management review shall be recorded and shall include decisions and actions 
related to the reviewed inputs and the following: 
1)  Improvements needed to maintain the suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of the 
quality management system and its processes; 
2)  Improvement of product related to customer requirements; 
3)  Changes needed to meet new or revised applicable statutory requirements; 
4)  Resource needs. 
 
6.  Resource Management 
6.1  Provision of Resources 
 
The organization shall determine and provide the resources needed for: 
1)  Implementing the quality management system and maintaining its effectiveness; 
2)  Meeting applicable regulatory requirements and customer requirements. 
 
6.2  Human Resources 
(a)  Personnel performing work affecting product quality shall be competent on the basis of 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
325 
 
appropriate education, training, skills, and experience.  
(b)  The organization shall establish the competencies required of personnel, provide the 
necessary training, and establish and document processes to ensure personnel awareness. 
(c)  The organization shall perform the following:  
1)  Determine the competencies needed for personnel performing work that affects 
product quality;  
2)  Provide training or take other actions to achieve or maintain the necessary 
competencies;  
3)  Evaluate the effectiveness of the actions taken; 
4)  Ensure that personnel are aware of the relevance and importance of their activities 
and how they contribute to the achievement of quality objectives;  
5)  Maintain appropriate records of education, training, skills, and experience. 
 
6.3. Infrastructure 
(a)  The organization shall document the infrastructure requirements necessary to ensure 
conformity to product requirements, prevent product mix-ups, and ensure orderly 
handling. Where applicable, infrastructure includes: 
1)  Buildings, workspace, and associated facilities; 
2)  Process equipment (hardware and software); 
3)  Supporting services such as transport, communication, or information systems. 
(b)  Where maintenance activities of infrastructure, or lack thereof, may affect product quality, 
the organization shall document the maintenance requirements, including maintenance 
intervals. Where applicable, these requirements shall apply to equipment used for 
manufacturing, work environment control, and monitoring and measurement. 
(c)  Records of such maintenance activities shall be maintained. 
 
6.4  Work Environment and Contamination Control 
6.4.1 Work Environment 
(a)  The organization shall document the requirements for the work environment necessary to 
ensure conformity to product requirements. 
(b)  Where work environment conditions may have an adverse effect on product quality, the 
organization shall document the requirements for the work environment and procedures 
for monitoring and controlling such conditions. 
(c)  The organization shall perform the following requirements: 
1)  Where personnel may come into contact with the product or the work environment in 
a manner that could affect the safety or performance of in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices, requirements for personnel health, cleanliness, and clothing shall be 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
326 
 
documented. 
2)  All personnel who work temporarily under special environmental conditions shall be 
competent or shall be supervised by competent personnel. 
 
6.4.2 Contamination Control 
(a)  Where applicable, the organization shall plan and document methods for controlling 
products that are contaminated or potentially contaminated, in order to prevent 
contamination of the work environment, personnel, or products.  
(b)  For sterilized in vitro diagnostic medical devices, the organization shall document 
requirements for contamination control related to microorganisms or particulates and shall 
maintain the required cleanliness during assembly or packaging processes. 
 
7.  Production Realization 
7.1  Planning of Production Realization 
(a)  The organization shall plan and develop the processes needed for production realization. 
Planning of production realization shall be consistent with the other process requirements 
of the quality management system. 
(b)  The organization shall document one or more processes for risk management during 
production realization, and records of risk management activities shall be maintained.  
(c)  Where applicable, the organization shall determine the following in planning production 
realization:  
1)  Quality objectives and requirements for the product; 
2)  The need to establish and document processes, and to provide specific resources for 
the product, including infrastructure and work environment; 
3)  Specific verification, validation, monitoring, measurement, testing and inspection, 
handling, storage, distribution, and traceability activities required for the product, 
along with the criteria for product acceptance; 
4)  Records necessary to demonstrate that production realization processes and their 
outputs meet requirements. 
(d)  The outputs of such planning shall be documented in a form appropriate to the 
organization’s method of operation. 
 
7.2  Customer-Related Processes 
7.2.1 Determination of Requirements Related to the Product 
 
The organization shall determine the following:  
1)  Requirements specified by the customer, including those related to delivery and post-
delivery activities; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
327 
 
2)  Requirements not stated by the customer but necessary for known specified or intended 
use;  
3)  Applicable statutory requirements related to the product; 
4)  User training necessary to ensure stated performance and safe use of the in vitro 
diagnostic medical device; 
5)  Any additional requirements determined by the organization. 
 
7.2.2 Review of Requirements Related to the Product 
(a)  The organization shall review the requirements related to the product. This review shall 
be conducted prior to the organization’s commitment to supply the product to the 
customer.  
1)  The requirements for the product are defined and documented; 
2)  Any contract or order requirements differing from those previously expressed are 
resolved; 
3)  Applicable statutory requirements are met; 
4)  User training determined under Section 7.2.1 is feasible or planned to be feasible; 
5)  The organization has the capability to meet the defined requirements. 
(b)  Records of the results of the review and any actions arising from the review shall be 
maintained. 
(c)  Where the customer does not provide documented requirements, the organization shall 
confirm the customer requirements prior to acceptance.  
(d)  When product requirements are changed, the organization shall amend the relevant 
documents and ensure that relevant personnel are made aware of the changed 
requirements.  
 
7.2.3 Communication 
(a)  The organization shall plan and document the methods for communicating with customers 
regarding: 
1)  Product information; 
2)  Handling inquiries, including amendments, contracts, or orders; 
3)  Customer feedback, including complaints; 
4)  Advisory notices. 
(b)  The organization shall communicate with regulatory authorities in accordance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 
 
7.3. Design and Development 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
328 
 
7.3.1 General  
 
The organization shall document procedures for design and development.  
7.3.2 Design and Development Planning 
(a)  The organization shall plan and control the design and development of the product. Where 
applicable, the design and development plan shall be maintained and updated as design 
and development progress. 
(b)  The organization shall document the following in the course of design and development 
planning:  
1)  The stages of design and development; 
2)  The reviews required at each stage of design and development;  
3)  The verification, validation, and design transfer activities appropriate to each stage 
of design and development; 
4)  The responsibilities and authorities for design and development; 
5)  The methods to ensure traceability between design and development inputs and 
outputs; 
6)  The necessary resources, including personnel competence. 
 
7.3.3 Design and Development Inputs 
(a)  The organization shall determine and maintain records of inputs relating to product 
requirements. These inputs shall include:  
1)  Functional, performance, usability, and safety requirements necessary for the 
intended use; 
2)  Applicable statutory requirements and standards; 
3)  Applicable risk management outputs; 
4)  Information derived from previous similar designs, where applicable; 
5)  Other requirements essential for the design and development of the product and 
process. 
(b)  Such inputs shall be reviewed and approved for adequacy.  
(c)  Product requirements shall be clear, unambiguous, verifiable or validatable, and shall not 
conflict with other requirements. 
 
7.3.4 Design and Development Outputs 
(a)  The design and development outputs shall: 
1)  Meet the design and development input requirements; 
2)  Provide appropriate information for purchasing, production, and service provision; 
3)  Include or reference the criteria for product acceptance;  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
329 
 
4)  Specify the characteristics of the product that are essential for safe and proper use. 
(b)  The outputs of the design and development process shall be provided in a form that 
enables verification against the design and development inputs and shall be approved 
prior to release.  
(c)  Records of the design and development outputs shall be maintained. 
 
7.3.5 Design and Development Review 
(a)  Systematic reviews of the design and development shall be conducted at appropriate 
stages in accordance with planned and documented methods for the purpose of:  
1)  Evaluating the ability of the design and development results to meet the 
requirements; 
2)  Identifying and proposing any necessary actions. 
(b)  Personnel participating in such reviews shall include not only the persons responsible for 
the design and development stage under review, but also other relevant experts. 
(c)  Records of the results of the reviews and any necessary actions shall be maintained and 
shall include identification of the design under review, the personnel participating in the 
review, and the dates of the review.  
 
7.3.6 Design and Development Verification  
(a)  Design and development verification shall be performed in accordance with planned and 
documented methods to ensure that the design and development outputs meet the input 
requirements.  
(b)  The organization shall document the verification plan, including the verification methods, 
acceptance criteria, and, where applicable, statistical techniques with justification for 
sample size. 
(c)  If the intended use requires the in vitro diagnostic medical device to be connected to or 
interfaced with another in vitro diagnostic medical device, the verification shall include 
confirmation that the design outputs meet the design inputs when so connected or 
interfaced. 
(d)  Records of the verification results, conclusions, and any necessary actions shall be 
maintained.  
 
7.3.7 Design and Development Validation 
(a)  Design and development validation shall be performed, in accordance with planned and 
documented methods, to ensure that the resulting product meets the requirements for the 
intended use or specified application.  
(b)  The organization shall document the validation plan, including the validation methods, 
acceptance criteria, and, where applicable, justification for sample size. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
330 
 
(c)  Design validation shall be performed on core product. Core product includes initial 
production units, batches, or their equivalents. The rationale for the selection of the 
product used for validation shall be recorded. 
(d)  As part of design and development validation, the organization shall perform clinical 
performance studies in accordance with applicable statutory requirements. 
(e)  In vitro diagnostic medical devices used for clinical performance studies shall not be 
considered as released for customer use. 
(f)  If the intended use requires the in vitro diagnostic medical device to be connected to or 
interfaced with another in vitro diagnostic medical device, the validation shall include 
confirmation that the product requirements for the specified application or intended use 
are met when so connected or interfaced.  
(g)  Validation shall be completed prior to the product’s release for customer use.  
(h)  Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
shall be maintained. 
 
7.3.8 Design and Development Transfer 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for the transfer of design and development 
outputs to manufacturing. These procedures shall ensure that the design and development 
outputs have been verified as suitable for manufacturing before becoming the final 
production specifications and that manufacturing capability can meet product 
requirements.  
(b)  Records of the results and conclusions of the transfer shall be maintained. 
 
7.3.9 Control of Design and Development Changes 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for controlling design and development 
changes. The organization shall determine the significance of changes to the function, 
performance, usability, safety, applicable statutory requirements, and intended use of the 
in vitro diagnostic medical device. 
(b)  Design and development changes shall be identified. Prior to implementation, the changes 
shall be: 
1)  Reviewed;  
2)  Verified;  
3)  Validated, where applicable; 
4)  Approved. 
(c)  The review of design and development changes shall include evaluation of the effects of 
the changes on constituent parts, products in manufacturing or already delivered, risk 
management inputs or outputs, and the production realization processes.  
(d)  Records of the changes, the review of the changes, and any necessary actions shall be 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
331 
 
maintained. 
 
7.3.10 Design and Development File 
(a)  The organization shall maintain a design and development file for each in vitro diagnostic 
medical device model or item. 
(b)  This file shall contain or reference the records generated to demonstrate conformity with 
the design and development requirements and the records of design and development 
changes. 
 
7.4.  Purchasing 
7.4.1 Purchasing Process 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures to ensure that purchased product conforms to 
specified requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall establish criteria for the evaluation and selection of suppliers. The 
criteria shall be based on: 
1)  The supplier’s ability to provide product that meets the organization’s requirements; 
2)  The supplier’s performance; 
3)  The effect of the purchased product on the quality of the in vitro diagnostic medical 
device; 
4)  Proportionate to the risks associated with the in vitro diagnostic medical device. 
(c)  The organization shall plan monitoring and re-evaluation of suppliers. The performance 
of suppliers in meeting purchased product requirements shall be monitored. The results of 
monitoring shall be provided as input to the supplier re-evaluation process.  
(d)  Non-fulfillment of purchasing requirements shall be addressed with the supplier in 
proportion to the risks associated with the purchased product and compliance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 
(e)  Records of the results of evaluation, selection, monitoring, and re-evaluation of suppliers 
and of any necessary actions arising from these activities shall be maintained. 
 
7.4.2 Purchasing Information 
(a)  Purchasing information shall describe or reference the product to be purchased, including, 
where appropriate:  
1)  Product specifications; 
2)  Requirements for product approval, procedures, processes, and equipment; 
3)  Requirements for the qualification of supplier personnel; 
4)  Quality management system requirements. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
332 
 
(b)  The organization shall ensure the adequacy of specified purchasing requirements prior to 
communication with the supplier. 
(c)  Purchasing information shall include, where appropriate, a written agreement that the 
supplier notify the organization of any changes to the product prior to implementation if 
such changes may affect the ability of the product to meet specified purchasing 
requirements. 
(d)  The organization shall maintain the relevant purchasing information as documents and 
records to the extent that traceability is required in accordance with Section 7.5.9. 
 
7.4.3 Verification of Purchased Product 
(a)  The organization shall establish and implement the inspection or other activities necessary 
to ensure that purchased product meets specified requirements. The extent of verification 
activities shall be based on the results of supplier evaluation and shall be proportional to 
the risks associated with the purchased product.  
(b)  When the organization becomes aware of any changes to the purchased product, it shall 
determine whether such changes affect the production realization processes or the in vitro 
diagnostic medical device. 
(c)  If the organization or its customer intends to verify the purchased product at the supplier’s 
premises, the organization shall specify in the purchasing information the intended 
verification arrangements and the method of product release.  
(d)  Records of verification shall be maintained. 
 
7.5  Production and Service Provision 
7.5.1 Control of Production and Service Provision 
(a)  Production and service provision shall be planned, carried out, monitored, and controlled 
to ensure that product conforms to specifications. Where appropriate, production control 
shall include, but not be limited to: 
1)  Documentation of procedures and methods for production control; 
2)  Qualification of infrastructure; 
3)  Implementation of monitoring and measurement of process parameters and product 
characteristics; 
4)  Availability and use of monitoring and measuring equipment; 
5)  Implementation of activities specified for labeling and packaging operations; 
6)  Implementation of product release, delivery, and post-delivery activities. 
(b)  The organization shall provide traceability to the extent required in accordance with 
Section 7.5.9 and shall establish and maintain records by in vitro diagnostic medical 
device or by in vitro diagnostic medical device batch that enable identification of the 
quantity produced and approved for distribution. These records shall be verified and 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
333 
 
approved. 
 
7.5.2 Cleanliness of Product 
 
The organization shall document requirements for cleanliness of product or contamination 
control of product in the following cases. Provided, however, that where the product is cleaned 
in accordance with 1) or 2), the requirements of 6.4.1 do not apply prior to the cleaning 
process. 
1)  Product that is cleaned by the organization prior to sterilization or use; 
2)  Product supplied non-sterile that requires a cleaning process prior to sterilization or use; 
3)  Product that cannot be cleaned prior to sterilization or use and for which cleanliness is of 
significant importance for use; 
4)  Product supplied non-sterile for which cleanliness is of significant importance for use; 
5)  Removal of process agents used during manufacturing from the product. 
 
7.5.3 Installation Activities 
(a)  Where applicable, the organization shall document the acceptance criteria for installation 
of the in vitro diagnostic medical device and for its installation verification. 
(b)  Where installation by parties other than the organization or the supplier is permitted by 
the customer, the organization shall provide documented requirements for installation of 
the in vitro diagnostic medical device and for installation verification.  
(c)  Records of installation of the in vitro diagnostic medical device and of installation 
verification performed by the organization or the supplier shall be maintained.  
 
7.5.4 Servicing Activities 
(a)  Where servicing of the in vitro diagnostic medical device is a specified requirement, the 
organization shall document servicing procedures, reference materials, and reference 
measurements, where necessary, for performing servicing activities and for verifying that 
the specified requirements are met.  
(b)  The organization shall analyze records of servicing activities performed by the 
organization or the supplier for the purpose of: 
1)  Determining whether the information should be handled as a complaint; 
2)  Providing, where applicable, input to the improvement processes. 
(c)  Records of servicing activities performed by the organization or the supplier shall be 
maintained.  
 
7.5.5 Particular Requirements for Sterile In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
The organization shall maintain records of the parameters of the sterilization process used for 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
334 
 
each sterilization batch. Sterilization records shall be traceable to each production batch of the 
in vitro diagnostic medical device. 
 
7.5.6 Validation of Processes for Production and Service Provision 
(a)  The organization shall validate any processes for production and service provision where 
the resulting output cannot be verified by subsequent monitoring or measurement. 
Validation shall include all processes where deficiencies become apparent only after the 
product is used or the service is delivered.  
(b)  Validation shall demonstrate the ability of the processes to achieve the planned results 
consistently.  
(c)  The organization shall document procedures for process validation that include:  
1)  Defined criteria for review and approval of the processes; 
2)  Qualification of equipment and personnel; 
3)  Use of specific methods, procedures, and acceptance criteria; 
4)  Statistical techniques, where applicable, including justification for sample size; 
5)  Requirements for records; 
6)  Revalidation, including the criteria for revalidation; 
7)  Approval of changes to the process. 
(d)  The organization shall document procedures for validation of the application of computer 
software used in production and service provision. Such software applications shall be 
validated prior to initial use and, where appropriate, validated after changes or software 
applications have been made. The specific approach and activities related to software 
validation and revalidation shall be proportionate to the risks associated with the use of 
the software, including the impact on product specifications and product performance.  
(e)  Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
resulting from the validation shall be maintained. 
 
7.5.7 Specific Requirements for Validation of Sterilization and Sterile Packaging Processes 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for validation of the sterilization processes 
and the sterile barrier systems. 
(b)  The sterilization processes and the sterile barrier systems shall be validated prior to initial 
use and, where applicable, prior to changes to the product or the process. 
(c)  Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
resulting from the validation shall be maintained. 
 
7.5.8 Identification 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for product identification and shall identify 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
335 
 
the product by suitable means throughout production realization. 
(b)  The organization shall identify the status of product with respect to monitoring and 
measurement requirements throughout production realization. The organization shall 
maintain identification of the status of product to ensure that only product that has passed 
the required tests and inspections, or that has been released under an approved 
concession, is dispatched, used, or installed during all phases of production, storage, 
installation, and servicing. 
(c)  Where required by applicable statutory requirements, the organization shall document a 
system for assigning a unique device identification (UDI) to the in vitro diagnostic 
medical device. 
(d)  The organization shall document procedures to ensure that in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices returned to the organization are identified and distinguished from conforming 
product. 
 
7.5.9 Traceability 
7.5.9.1 General Requirements 
 
The organization shall document procedures for traceability. These procedures shall define the 
scope of traceability and the records to be maintained in accordance with applicable statutory 
requirements. 
 
7.5.9.2 Particular Requirements for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices Subject to 
Traceability 
(a)  Where components, materials, or working environment conditions used could cause the in 
vitro diagnostic medical device not to meet specified safety and performance 
requirements, records required for traceability shall include records of the components, 
materials, and working environment conditions used. 
(b)  The organization shall require distributors or retailers to maintain records of sales of the 
in vitro diagnostic medical device and to make such records available for investigation to 
ensure product traceability.  
(c)  The organization shall maintain records of the name and address of the consignee for 
shipped product.  
 
7.5.10 Customer Property 
 
Where customer property provided for use or incorporation into the product is under the 
manufacturer’s control or is being used by the manufacturer, the organization shall identify, 
verify, protect, and safeguard such property. If customer property is lost, damaged, or found to 
be unsuitable for use, this shall be reported to the customer and records shall be maintained. 
  
7.5.11 Preservation of Product 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
336 
 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures to preserve product conformity to 
requirements during processing, storage, handling, and distribution. 
(b)  Preservation shall also apply to components of the in vitro diagnostic medical device. 
(c)  When exposed to expected conditions and hazards during processing, storage, handling, 
and distribution, the organization shall protect the product from alteration, contamination, 
or damage by the following means: 
1)  Designing and constructing appropriate packaging and transportation containers; 
2)  Documenting requirements for any special conditions needed where packaging alone 
does not provide preservation. 
(d)  Where special conditions are necessary, such conditions shall be controlled and recorded.  
 
7.6. Control of Monitoring and Measuring Equipment 
(a)  The organization shall determine the monitoring and measurement activities to be 
performed, and the monitoring and measuring equipment required, to demonstrate that the 
product meets specified requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall document procedures to ensure that monitoring and measurement 
activities are carried out in a manner consistent with the monitoring and measurement 
requirements. 
(c)  Where necessary to ensure valid results, measuring equipment shall: 
1)  Be calibrated or verified, or both, at specified intervals or prior to use, against 
measurement standards traceable to international or national measurement standards. 
Where no such standards exist, the basis used for calibration or verification shall be 
recorded. 
2)  Be adjusted or re-adjusted as necessary. Such adjustments or re-adjustments shall be 
recorded. 
3)  Be identified to enable the calibration status to be determined.  
4)  Be safeguarded from adjustments that would invalidate the measurement result.  
5)  Be protected from damage and deterioration during handling, maintenance, and 
storage. 
(d)  The organization shall calibrate or verify the equipment in accordance with documented 
procedures.  
(e)  When equipment is found not to conform to requirements, the organization shall assess 
the validity of previous measurement results. The organization shall take appropriate 
action regarding the equipment and any product affected. Records of the results of 
calibration and verification shall be maintained. 
(f)  When computer software is used in monitoring or measuring the requirements specified, 
the organization shall document procedures for validation of the application of computer 
software. The software shall be validated prior to initial use and, where appropriate, 
revalidated after changes to the software or its application. The specific approach and 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
337 
 
activities related to software validation and revalidation shall be proportionate to the risks 
associated with the use of the software, including the impact on product specifications and 
product performance.  
(g)  Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
resulting from the validation shall be maintained. 
 
8.  Measurement, Analysis and Improvement 
8.1  General Requirements 
(a)  The organization shall plan and implement the monitoring, measurement, analysis, and 
improvement processes needed: 
1)  To demonstrate conformity of the product; 
2)  To ensure conformity of the quality management system; 
3)  To maintain the effectiveness of the quality management system. 
(b)  This shall include determination of the methods, including statistical techniques, and the 
extent of their use.  
 
8.2 Monitoring and Measurement 
8.2.1 Feedback 
(a)  As one of the measurements of the effectiveness of the quality management system, the 
organization shall collect and monitor information relating to whether customer 
requirements have been met.  
(b)  The methods for obtaining and using this information shall be documented. 
(c)  The organization shall document procedures for the feedback process. The feedback 
process shall include provisions for gathering data from production as well as post-
production activities.  
(d)  Information gathered in the feedback process shall be used as potential input to risk 
management in order to monitor and maintain the product requirements and the 
production realization or improvement processes. 
(e)  Where applicable statutory requirements require the organization to collect information 
from post-production activities, review of that information shall be part of the feedback 
process. 
 
8.2.2 Handling of Complaints 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for timely handling of complaints in 
accordance with applicable statutory requirements. These procedures shall include, at a 
minimum, the following requirements and responsibilities: 
1)  Receiving and recording information; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
338 
 
2)  Evaluating information to determine whether feedback constitutes a complaint; 
3)  Investigating complaints; 
4)  Determining whether the information must be reported to the appropriate regulatory 
authorities;  
5)  Handling complaint-related product; 
6)  Determining the need for correction or corrective action. 
(b)  If any complaint is not investigated, the justification for not conducting the investigation 
shall be documented. All results of corrections and corrective actions arising from the 
complaint handling process shall be documented. 
(c)  Where an investigation determines that activities external to the organization caused the 
complaint, relevant information shall be exchanged between the organization and the 
external parties.  
(e)  Records of complaint handling shall be maintained. 
 
8.2.3 Reporting to Regulatory Authorities 
(a)  Where complaints are subject to adverse event reporting or advisory notice reporting in 
accordance with applicable statutory requirements, the organization shall document 
procedures for reporting such complaints to the regulatory authorities.  
(b)  Records of reports submitted to regulatory authorities shall be maintained. 
 
8.2.4 Internal Audit 
(a)  The organization shall conduct internal audits at planned intervals to determine whether 
the quality management system: 
1)  Conforms to the planned and documented arrangements, the requirements of this 
GMP, the quality management system requirements established by the organization, 
and the applicable statutory requirements; 
2)  Is effectively implemented and maintained. 
(b)  The organization shall document procedures that define the responsibilities and 
requirements for planning and conducting audits, and for recording and reporting audit 
results. 
(c)  The audit program shall be planned, taking into consideration the status and importance of 
the processes and areas to be audited, as well as the results of previous audits. The audit 
criteria, scope, frequency, and methods shall be defined and recorded. Auditors shall be 
selected and audits conducted to ensure objectivity and impartiality of the audit process. 
Auditors shall not audit their own work. Records of the audit and audit results, including 
the processes and areas audited and the conclusions reached, shall be maintained. 
(d)  Management responsible for the areas being audited shall ensure that necessary 
corrections and corrective actions are taken without undue delay to eliminate detected 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
339 
 
nonconformities and their causes. Follow-up activities shall include the verification of the 
actions taken and the reporting of the results of verification.  
 
8.2.5 Monitoring and Measurement of Processes 
 
The organization shall apply suitable methods for monitoring and, where applicable, 
measurement of the quality management system processes. These methods shall demonstrate 
the ability of the processes to achieve the planned results. When the planned results are not 
achieved, appropriate correction and corrective action shall be taken to ensure conformity of 
the product.  
 
8.2.6 Monitoring and Measurement of Product 
(a)  The organization shall monitor and measure the characteristics of the product to verify 
that product requirements have been met. This shall be carried out at appropriate stages of 
the production realization process in accordance with the planned and documented 
arrangements and documented procedures. 
(b)  Records demonstrating conformity with the acceptance criteria shall be maintained. The 
identity of the person authorizing product release shall be recorded. Where applicable, the 
test equipment used for measurement activities shall be identified and recorded. 
(c)  Product shall not be released, nor shall service be provided, until the planned and 
documented activities have been satisfactorily completed. 
(d)  For in vitro diagnostic medical devices subject to traceability, the organization shall 
identify and record the identity of personnel performing all inspections or tests. 
 
8.3  Control of Nonconforming Product 
8.3.1 General 
(a)  The organization shall ensure that nonconforming product is identified and controlled to 
prevent its unintended use or delivery. The organization shall document procedures that 
define the controls and related responsibilities and authorities for dealing with 
nonconforming product, including identification, documentation, segregation, evaluation, 
and disposition. 
(b)  Evaluation of nonconformities shall include investigation into any external party 
responsible for the nonconformity and determination of whether notification is required. 
(c)  Records of the nonconformity, including the evaluation, investigation, the basis for the 
decisions made, and all actions taken in response, shall be maintained. 
 
8.3.2 Actions in Response to Nonconforming Product Detected Prior to Delivery 
(a)  The organization shall deal with nonconforming product in one or more of the following 
ways:  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
340 
 
1)  Taking action to eliminate the detected nonconformity; 
2)  Taking action to preclude its original intended use or application; 
3)  Authorizing its use, release, or acceptance under concession. 
(b)  The organization shall ensure that concessions are granted only when justified, approved, 
and compliant with applicable statutory requirements. Records shall be maintained to 
identify acceptance under concession and the personnel authorizing the concession. 
 
8.3.3 Actions in Response to Nonconforming Product Detected After Delivery 
(a)  When nonconforming product is detected after delivery or use, the organization shall take 
appropriate action regarding the effects or potential effects of the nonconformity. Records 
of the actions taken shall be maintained. 
(b)  The organization shall document procedures for issuing advisory notices in accordance 
with applicable statutory requirements. These procedures shall be capable of being 
implemented at any time. Records of the actions related to advisory notices shall be 
maintained. 
 
8.3.4 Rework 
(a)  The organization shall perform rework in accordance with documented procedures that 
consider the potential adverse effects of the rework on the product. These procedures shall 
be subject to the same review and approval as the original procedures.  
(b)  After completion of the rework, the product shall be verified to ensure that it meets the 
applicable acceptance criteria and statutory requirements.  
(c)  Records of the rework shall be maintained. 
 
8.4 Analysis of Data 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures to determine, collect, and analyze 
appropriate data to demonstrate the suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of the quality 
management system. These procedures shall include the determination of appropriate 
methods, including statistical techniques and the extent of their application. 
(b)  Analysis of data shall include data generated from the results of monitoring and 
measurement and from other relevant sources, and shall include, at a minimum, the 
following inputs: 
1)  Feedback;  
2)  Conformity to product requirements;  
3)  Process and product characteristics and trends, including opportunities for 
improvement; 
4)  Suppliers; 
5)  Audits; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
341 
 
6)  Service reports, where applicable. 
(c)  Where analysis of data shows that the quality management system is not suitable, 
adequate, or effective, the organization shall use this analysis as input for improvement as 
required in 8.5.  
(d)  Records of the results of data analysis shall be maintained.  
 
8.5 Improvement 
8.5.1 General Requirements 
 
The organization shall identify and implement any changes necessary to ensure and maintain 
the ongoing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of the quality management system, as well 
as the safety and performance of in vitro diagnostic medical devices, through the use of the 
quality policy, quality objectives, audit results, post-marketing surveillance, data analysis, 
corrective and preventive actions, and management review.  
 
8.5.2 Corrective Action 
(a)  The organization shall take action to eliminate the causes of nonconformities in order to 
prevent their recurrence. 
(b)  Corrective actions required shall be taken without undue delay. Corrective actions shall be 
proportionate to the effects of the nonconformities encountered. 
(c)  Documented procedures shall define requirements for:  
1)  Reviewing nonconformities (including customer complaints); 
2)  Determining the causes of nonconformities; 
3)  Evaluating the need for action to ensure that nonconformities do not recur; 
4)  Planning and documenting the required actions and implementing them, including 
document changes where applicable;  
5)  Verifying that corrective actions do not adversely affect the safety and performance 
of the in vitro diagnostic medical device or compliance with applicable statutory 
requirements;  
6)  Reviewing the effectiveness of the corrective actions taken. 
(d)  Records of all investigation results and actions taken shall be maintained.  
 
8.5.3 Preventive Action 
(a)  The organization shall determine preventive actions to eliminate the causes of potential 
nonconformities in order to prevent their occurrence. Preventive actions shall be 
proportionate to the potential impacts of such issues.  
(b)  Documented procedures shall define requirements for:  
1)  Determining potential nonconformities and their causes; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
342 
 
2)  Evaluating the need for action to prevent the occurrence of nonconformities; 
3)  Planning and documenting the required actions and determining and implementing 
such actions, including document changes where applicable; 
4)  Verifying that preventive actions do not adversely affect the safety and performance 
of the in vitro diagnostic medical device or compliance with applicable statutory 
requirements;  
5)  Reviewing the effectiveness of preventive actions taken, where applicable. 
(c)  Records of the results of all investigations and actions taken shall be maintained.  
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
343 
 
9.  Conformity Recognition Assessment Sheet for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
9.1 General Information 
Conformity Recognition Assessment Sheet for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
Name of business 
 
Type of business 
□ Manufacturing 
□ Import 
Business license number 
 
Representative 
 
Quality manager 
 
Address 
 
(Telephone:          , Fax:          , E-mail:         ) 
Applicable criteria 
□  Class I in vitro diagnostic medical device 
□  In vitro diagnostic medical device for clinical performance studies 
□  In vitro diagnostic medical device for export 
□  Innovative medical device software 
□  Use of the Medical Device Single Audit Program 
□  Excellent manufacturing site 
 
※ Fill in only if applicable. 
Assessment type 
□  Initial assessment   
□ Periodic assessment   
□  assessment for change □ Additional assessment 
Method of 
assessment 
□ On-site inspection     □ Document review 
Reason for the 
determination of the 
assessment type and 
method 
 
Product 
Product group 
 
Product name / Class 
 
Assessment team 
Affiliation 
Name 
Ministry of Food and Drug 
Safety 
 
Audit Organization 
(Name of Agency) 
 
Assessment date 
.     .     .     -     .     .     . 
Assessment result 
□ Conforming    □ Additional actions required (by  .  .  )    □ Nonconforming 
In the case of Annex 2, Section 9.4, subparagraph 2, item (a) 2), the results of corrective actions 
shall be submitted by (yyyy.mm.dd). 
This document represents the result of the conformity assessment conducted pursuant to Article 6 of the Good 
Manufacturing Practice for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices. 
Year   Month   Day 
 
Ministry of Food and Drug Safety:  
Seal 
Audit Organization:  
Seal 
Representative:  
Seal 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
344 
 
9.2  Information on Assessment Location 
Name of business 
 
□ Corporation 
□ Individual 
License number 
 
Representative 
 
Quality manager 
 
Name/address of 
manufacturing site 
subject to 
assessment 
Legal manufacturer: 
(Name) 
(Location) 
Manufacturer: 
(Name) 
(Location) 
Facility 
information of the 
manufacturing site 
 
Contact 
information 
 
Number of 
employees 
 
Working hours 
(Shift hours, etc.) 
 
Status of 
related 
certifications 
Certification body 
Certification 
criteria 
Scope of 
certification 
Expiration date 
 
 
 
 
On-site inspection 
date 
Year    month    day – year    month    day 
Information on 
previous 
assessment 
Information 
(Fill in only if 
applicable) 
Assessment date 
 
Audit organization 
 
Auditor(s) 
 
Assessment criteria and 
scope 
 
Assessment result 
 
Action required 
 
Remarks 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
345 
 
9.3.1 Detailed Assessment Contents (Where the Medical Device Single Audit Program Is Not 
Applied) 
Category 
Details 
Noteworthy findings during 
assessment 
 
Excluded items 
 
Reason for exclusion 
 
Points to verify regarding 
the interrelationships of the 
quality management system 
 
Assessment area 
Assessment details 
1. Quality Management 
System 
 
2. Management 
Responsibility 
 
3. Resource Management 
 
4. Production Realization 
 
5. Measurement, Analysis 
and Improvement 
 
6. Assessment Result 
 
Required actions 
No. 
Relevant 
clause 
Required actions 
1 
 
 
2 
 
 
3 
 
 
4 
 
 
5 
 
 
Assessment 
description 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
346 
 
9.3.2 Detailed Assessment Contents (Where the Medical Device Single Audit Program Is 
Applied) 
Category 
Assessment details 
Noteworthy findings during 
assessment 
 
Assessment information 
Audit organization, assessment start date, assessment end date, 
assessment duration (number of assessment days), assessment report 
number, assessment type (initial/renewal), etc. 
(refer to Sections 1 and 3 of the MDSAP Assessment Results) 
Information on the 
manufacturing site subject 
to assessment 
Name of the manufacturing site subject to assessment, information on 
the manufacturing site, detailed address of the manufacturing site, 
relationship with the product subject to assessment, etc. 
(refer to Sections 2 through 8) 
Excluded items and reasons (refer to section 9) 
Points to verify regarding 
the interrelationships of the 
quality management system 
Roles performed by the manufacturing site subject to assessment, 
manufacturing processes conducted at the site, etc. 
(refer to section 4) 
Assessment area 
Assessment details 
1. MDSAP assessment 
results 
※  The review results for Items 4 through 8 of Annex 2, item (a) of 
Article 7 (1) 3 shall be indicated in the assessment sheet below. 
(The assessment results and determination criteria shall be applied in 
accordance with the same criteria as those in 9.4 Assessment Sheet) 
Category 
Scope of assessment 
Assessment 
result 
A 
B 
C 
D 
Section 11 
11.1  Process: Management 
 
 
 
 
11.2  Process: Medical Device Approval and 
Manufacturing Site Registration 
 
 
 
 
11.3  Process: Measurement, Analysis and 
Improvement 
 
 
 
 
11.4  Process: Adverse Event Reporting and 
Issuance of Advisory Notices for 
Medical Devices 
 
 
 
 
11.5  Process: Design and Development 
 
 
 
 
11.6  Process: Production and Service 
Controls 
 
 
 
 
11.7  Process: Purchasing 
 
 
 
 
11.8  Other Findings 
 
 
 
 
Section 12 
Nonconformities (Identification of 
Nonconformities and Supporting Evidence) 
 
 
 
 
Section 14 
Follow-up Actions on Previous 
Nonconformities 
 
 
 
 
2. Device Master Record 
(DMR) 
Adequacy of the Device Master Records (DMRs) for core product of 
each product group among domestically manufactured or imported 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
347 
 
products 
(Article 7 (1) 3 (b)) 
3. Quality Management 
System Documentation 
Conformity with the regulatory requirements under the Act on In Vitro 
Diagnostic Medical Devices 
(Article 7 (1) 3 (c)) 
4. Assessment Result 
Overall Opinion of the Assessment Team 
Required Actions 
No. 
Relevant 
clause 
Required actions 
1 
 
 
2 
 
 
Assessment 
description 
 
※  To be completed for conformity recognition assessments using the Medical Device Single 
Audit Program (9.4 Assessment Sheet omitted) 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
348 
 
9.4 Assessment Sheet 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
4.  Quality 
Management 
System 
4.1  General 
Requirements 
4.1.1 
(a)  The organization shall document its quality 
management system in accordance with the 
requirements of this GMP and applicable 
statutory requirements, and shall maintain the 
effectiveness of the quality management 
system. 
(b)  The organization shall establish, implement, 
and maintain specific requirements, procedures, 
activities, or methods of operation that must be 
documented pursuant to this GMP and 
applicable statutory requirements. 
(c)  The organization shall document the roles 
required to perform in accordance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.2 
The organization shall implement the following: 
1)  Determine the processes necessary for the 
quality management system, taking into 
account the roles performed by the 
organization, and apply those processes 
throughout the organization; 
2)  Apply a risk-based approach to the appropriate 
management of processes required for the 
quality management system; 
3)  Determine the sequence and interaction of 
those processes. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.3 
For each processes of the quality management 
system, the organization shall perform the 
following: 
1)  Determine the criteria and methods necessary 
to ensure the effective operation and control of 
the processes; 
2)  Ensure the availability of information and 
resources necessary to support the operation 
and monitoring of the processes; 
3)  Take necessary actions to achieve planned 
results and maintain the effectiveness of the 
processes; 
4)  Monitor such processes and, where applicable, 
measure and analyze them; 
5)  Prepare and maintain the records necessary to 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
349 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
demonstrate conformity with this GMP and 
compliance with applicable statutory 
requirements. 
4.1.4 
The organization shall control quality management 
system processes in conformity with this GMP and 
applicable statutory requirements. Where such 
processes are to be changed, the organization shall 
perform the following: 
1)  Evaluate whether the change to the process 
affects the quality management system; 
2)  Evaluate whether the change to the process 
affects the in vitro diagnostic medical devices 
produced under the quality management 
system; 
3)  Control such matters in accordance with this 
GMP and applicable statutory requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.5 
(a)  Where the organization outsources any process 
that affects product conformity requirements, it 
shall ensure that such processes are monitored 
and controlled. 
(b)  The organization shall retain responsibility for 
ensuring compliance with this GMP, customer 
requirements, and applicable statutory 
requirements for outsourced processes. 
(c)  Control of outsourced processes shall be 
proportionate to the associated risks and to the 
capability of the contracted supplier to meet the 
requirements under paragraph 7.4, and shall 
include a written quality agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.6 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for 
the validation of computer software used in the 
quality management system. 
(b)  Such software shall be validated prior to initial 
use, and where applicable, sshall also be 
validated following any changes to the software 
or its application. 
(c)  Specific approaches and activities related to 
software validation and revalidation shall be 
proportionate to the risks associated with the 
use of the software. 
(d)  Records of these activities shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
350 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
4.2  Documentation 
Requirements 
4.2.1 General 
Requirements 
Documentation of the quality management system 
shall include the following: 
1)  Documented quality policy and quality 
objectives; 
2)  Quality manual; 
3)  Documented procedures and records required 
by this GMP; 
4)  Documents, including records, determined by 
the organization to be necessary to ensure the 
effective planning, operation, and control of its 
processes; 
5)  Any additional documentation required by 
applicable statutory requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2.2 Quality Manual 
(a)  The organization shall document a quality 
manual that includes the following: 
1)  The scope of the quality management system, 
including details of any exclusions or non-
applications and their justification; 
2)  Documented procedures established for the 
quality management system and reference to 
such documents; 
3)  A description of the interactions between 
processes of the quality management system. 
(b)  The quality manual shall briefly specify the 
structure of the documents used in the quality 
management system. 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2.3 In Vitro 
Diagnostic 
Medical Device 
File 
(a)  For each in vitro diagnostic medical device 
model or item, the organization shall establish 
and maintain one or more files containing or 
referencing documents generated to 
demonstrate conformity with this GMP and 
compliance with applicable statutory 
requirements. 
(b)  The contents of the in vitro diagnostic medical 
device file shall include, but not be limited to, 
the following: 
1)  A general description of the in vitro diagnostic 
medical device, including its intended 
use/purpose and all instructions for use; 
2)  Product specifications; 
3)  Specifications and procedures for 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
351 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
manufacturing, packaging, storage, handling, 
and distribution; 
4)  Measurement and monitoring procedures; 
5)  Installation requirements, where applicable; 
6)  Servicing procedures, where applicable. 
4.2.4 Control of 
Documents 
(a)  Documents required by the quality 
management system shall be controlled. 
Records are a special type of document and 
shall be controlled in accordance with Section 
4.2.5. 
(b)  Procedures necessary to control the following 
shall be documented: 
1)  Review and approval of documents for 
adequacy prior to issuance; 
2)  Review, update, and re-approval of documents 
as necessary; 
3)  Ensure that changes to documents and the 
current revision status are identified; 
4)  Ensure that applicable versions of documents 
are available at points of use; 
5)  Ensure that documents remain legible and 
readily identifiable; 
6)  Ensure that documents of external origin 
determined by the organization to be necessary 
for the planning and operation of the quality 
management system are identified and their 
distribution controlled; 
7)  Prevent deterioration or loss of documents; 
8)  Preventing the unintended use of obsolete 
documents and applying appropriate 
identification if they are retained for any 
purpose. 
(c)  The organization shall ensure that document 
changes are reviewed and approved by the 
original approving authority or other authorized 
personnel who have access to the background 
information on which the organization’s 
decisions are based. 
(d)  The organization shall retain at least one copy 
of obsolete controlled documents for a period 
corresponding to the product’s life cycle, which 
shall be no less than the retention period 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
352 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
required for records. 
4.2.5 Control of 
Records 
(a)  Records shall be established and maintained to 
demonstrate the effective operation of the 
quality management system and conformity to 
requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall document procedures 
defining the controls needed for the 
identification, storage, security and integrity, 
retrieval, retention period, and disposition of 
records. 
(c)  The organization shall establish and implement 
methods to protect personal health information 
contained in records in accordance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 
(d)  All records shall be easily legible, readily 
identifiable, and retrievable. Any changes to 
records shall remain identifiable. 
(e)  The organization shall retain records for a 
period corresponding to the product’s life cycle. 
This period shall be at least five years from the 
date of manufacture and at least two years after 
release to the market. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Management 
Responsibility 
5.1  Management 
Commitment 
Top management shall demonstrate its commitment 
to the development and implementation of the 
quality management system and to maintaining its 
effectiveness through the following: 
1)  Communicate the importance of fulfilling 
customer requirements and applicable statutory 
requirements with the organization; 
2)  Establish the quality policy; 
3)  Ensure that quality objectives are established; 
4)  Conduct management reviews; 
5)  Ensure the availability of resources. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Customer Focus 
Top management shall ensure that customer 
requirements and applicable statutory requirements 
are determined and fulfilled. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Quality Policy 
Top management shall ensure that the quality policy: 
1)  Is appropriate to the purpose of the 
organization; 
2)  Includes a commitment to comply with 
requirements and to maintain the effectiveness 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
353 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
of the quality management system; 
3)  Provides a framework for establishing and 
reviewing quality objectives; 
4)  Is communicated and understood within the 
organization; 
5)  Is reviewed for continuing suitability. 
5.4  Planning 
5.4.1 Quality 
Objectives 
(a)  Top management shall ensure that the quality 
objectives include the necessary elements to 
meet applicable statutory requirements and 
product requirements, and that they are 
established at relevant functions and levels 
within the organization. 
(b)  The quality objectives shall be measurable and 
shall be consistent with the quality policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.4.2 Planning of the 
Quality 
Management 
System 
Top management shall ensure the following: 
1)  The planning of the quality management 
system is carried out not only to achieve the 
quality objectives but also to meet the 
requirements of Section 4.1; 
2)  The integrity of the quality management system 
is maintained when changes to the quality 
management system are planned and 
implemented. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.5  Responsibility, 
Authority, and 
Communication 
5.5.1 Responsibility 
and Authority 
(a)  Top management shall ensure that 
responsibilities and authorities within the 
organization are defined, documented, and 
communicated. 
(b)  Top management shall document the 
interrelationships of all personnel who manage, 
perform, and verify work affecting quality, and 
shall ensure the authority and independence 
necessary to perform such work. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.5.2 Quality Manager 
Top management shall appoint a person within the 
organization who, irrespective of other 
responsibilities, has the authority and responsibility 
to perform the following: 
1)  Ensure that the processes necessary for the 
quality management system are documented; 
2)  Report to top management on the performance 
and effectiveness of the quality management 
system and on the need for improvement; 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
354 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
3)  Ensure that awareness of applicable statutory 
requirements and quality management system 
requirements is promoted throughout the 
organization. 
5.5.3 Internal 
Communication 
Top management shall ensure that appropriate 
communication processes are established within the 
organization and that communication regarding the 
effectiveness of the quality management system is 
carried out. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6  Management 
Review 
5.6.1 General 
Requirements 
(a)  The organization shall document the procedure 
for management review. 
(b)  Top management shall review the quality 
management system at documented planned 
intervals to ensure its continuing suitability, 
adequacy, and effectiveness. 
(c)  Management reviews shall include an 
evaluation of the need for changes and 
opportunities for improvement in the quality 
management system, including the quality 
policy and quality objectives. 
(d)  Records of management reviews shall be 
maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6.2 Review Inputs 
The inputs to management review shall include, but 
not be limited to, the following: 
1)  Feedback; 
2)  Handling of complaints; 
3)  Reports to regulatory authorities; 
4)  Audits; 
5)  Monitoring and measurement of processes; 
6)  Monitoring and measurement of product; 
7)  Corrective action; 
8)  Preventive action; 
9)  Follow-up actions from previous management 
reviews; 
10)  Changes that could affect the quality 
management system; 
11)  Recommendations for improvement; 
12)  New or revised applicable statutory 
requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6.3 Review Outputs The outputs of management review shall be 
recorded and shall include decisions and actions 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
355 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
related to the reviewed inputs and the following: 
1)  Improvements needed to maintain the 
suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of the 
quality management system and its processes; 
2)  Improvement of product related to customer 
requirements; 
3)  Changes needed to meet new or revised 
applicable statutory requirements; 
4)  Resource needs. 
6.  Resource 
Management 
6.1 Provision of 
Resources 
The organization shall determine and provide the 
resources needed for: 
1)  Implementing the quality management system 
and maintaining its effectiveness; 
2)  Meeting applicable regulatory requirements 
and customer requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2  Human 
Resources 
(a)  Personnel performing work affecting product 
quality shall be competent on the basis of 
appropriate education, training, skills, and 
experience. 
(b)  The organization shall establish the 
competencies required of personnel, provide 
the necessary training, and establish and 
document processes to ensure personnel 
awareness. 
(c)  The organization shall perform the following: 
1)  Determine the competencies needed for 
personnel performing work that affects product 
quality; 
2)  Provide training or take other actions to achieve 
or maintain the necessary competencies; 
3)  Evaluate the effectiveness of the actions taken; 
4)  Ensure that personnel are aware of the 
relevance and importance of their activities and 
how they contribute to the achievement of 
quality objectives; 
5)  Maintain appropriate records of education, 
training, skills, and experience. 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Infrastructure 
(a)  The organization shall document the 
infrastructure requirements necessary to ensure 
conformity to product requirements, prevent 
product mix-ups, and ensure orderly handling. 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
356 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
Where applicable, infrastructure includes: 
1)  Buildings, workspace, and associated facilities; 
2)  Process equipment (hardware and software); 
3)  Supporting services such as transport, 
communication, or information systems. 
(b)  Where maintenance activities of infrastructure, 
or lack thereof, may affect product quality, the 
organization shall document the maintenance 
requirements, including maintenance intervals. 
Where applicable, these requirements shall 
apply to equipment used for manufacturing, 
work environment control, and monitoring and 
measurement. 
(c)  Records of such maintenance activities shall be 
maintained. 
6.4  Work 
Environment and 
Contamination 
Control 
6.4.1 Work 
Environment 
(a)  The organization shall document the 
requirements for the work environment 
necessary to ensure conformity to product 
requirements. 
(b)  Where work environment conditions may have 
an adverse effect on product quality, the 
organization shall document the requirements 
for the work environment and procedures for 
monitoring and controlling such conditions. 
(c)  The organization shall perform the following 
requirements: 
1)  Where personnel may come into contact with 
the product or the work environment in a 
manner that could affect the safety or 
performance of in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices, requirements for personnel health, 
cleanliness, and clothing shall be documented. 
2)  All personnel who work temporarily under 
special environmental conditions shall be 
competent or shall be supervised by competent 
personnel. 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4.2 Contamination 
Control 
(a)  Where applicable, the organization shall plan 
and document methods for controlling products 
that are contaminated or potentially 
contaminated, in order to prevent 
contamination of the work environment, 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
357 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
personnel, or products. 
(b)  For sterilized in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices, the organization shall document 
requirements for contamination control related 
to microorganisms or particulates and shall 
maintain the required cleanliness during 
assembly or packaging processes. 
7.  Production 
Realization 
7.1  Planning of 
Production 
Realization 
(a)  The organization shall plan and develop the 
processes needed for production realization. 
Planning of production realization shall be 
consistent with the other process requirements 
of the quality management system. 
(b)  The organization shall document one or more 
processes for risk management during 
production realization, and records of risk 
management activities shall be maintained. 
(c)  Where applicable, the organization shall 
determine the following in planning production 
realization: 
1)  Quality objectives and requirements for the 
product; 
2)  The need to establish and document processes, 
and to ensure the availability of specific 
resources for the product, including 
infrastructure and work environment; 
3)  Specific verification, validation, monitoring, 
measurement, testing and inspection, handling, 
storage, distribution, and traceability activities 
required for the product, along with the criteria 
for product acceptance; 
4)  Records necessary to demonstrate that 
production realization processes and their 
outputs meet requirements. 
(d)  The outputs of such planning shall be 
documented in a form appropriate to the 
organization’s method of operation. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2  Customer-Related 
Processes 
7.2.1 Determination of 
Requirements 
Related to the 
The organization shall determine the following: 
1)  Requirements specified by the customer, 
including those related to delivery and post-
delivery activities; 
2)  Requirements not stated by the customer but 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
358 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
Product 
necessary for known specified or intended use; 
3)  Applicable statutory requirements related to the 
product; 
4)  User training necessary to ensure stated 
performance and safe use of the in vitro 
diagnostic medical device; 
5)  Any additional requirements determined by the 
organization. 
7.2.2 Review of 
Requirements 
Related to the 
Product 
(a)  The organization shall review the requirements 
related to the product. This review shall be 
conducted prior to the organization’s 
commitment to supply the product to the 
customer. 
1)  The requirements for the product are defined 
and documented; 
2)  Any contract or order requirements differing 
from those previously expressed are resolved; 
3)  Applicable statutory requirements are met; 
4) 
 User training determined under Section 7.2.1 is 
feasible or planned to be feasible; 
5)  The organization has the capability to meet the 
defined requirements. 
(b)  Records of the results of the review and any 
actions arising from the review shall be 
maintained. 
(c)  Where the customer does not provide 
documented requirements, the organization 
shall confirm the customer requirements prior 
to acceptance. 
(d)  When product requirements are changed, the 
organization shall amend the relevant 
documents and ensure that relevant personnel 
are made aware of the changed requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2.3 Communication 
(a)  The organization shall plan and document the 
methods for communicating with customers 
regarding: 
1)  Product information; 
2)  Handling inquiries, including amendments, 
contracts, or orders; 
3)  Customer feedback, including complaints; 
4)  Advisory notices. 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
359 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
(b)  The organization shall communicate with 
regulatory authorities in accordance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 
7.3. Design and 
Development 
7.3.1 General 
The organization shall document procedures for 
design and development. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.2 Design and 
Development 
Planning 
(a)  The organization shall plan and control the 
design and development of the product. Where 
applicable, the design and development plan 
shall be maintained and updated as design and 
development progress. 
(b)  The organization shall document the following 
in the course of design and development 
planning: 
1)  The stages of design and development; 
2)  The reviews required at each stage of design 
and development; 
3)  The verification, validation, and design transfer 
activities appropriate to each stage of design 
and development; 
4)  The responsibilities and authorities for design 
and development; 
5)  The methods to ensure traceability between 
design and development inputs and outputs; 
6)  The necessary resources, including personnel 
competence. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.3 Design and 
Development 
Inputs 
(a)  The organization shall determine and maintain 
records of inputs relating to product 
requirements. These inputs shall include: 
1)  Functional, performance, usability, and safety 
requirements necessary for the intended use; 
2)  Applicable statutory requirements and 
standards; 
3)  Applicable risk management outputs; 
4)  Information derived from previous similar 
designs, where applicable; 
5)  Other requirements essential for the design and 
development of the product and process. 
(b)  Such inputs shall be reviewed and approved for 
adequacy. 
(c)  Product requirements shall be clear, 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
360 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
unambiguous, verifiable or validatable, and 
shall not conflict with other requirements. 
7.3.4 Design and 
Development 
Outputs 
(a)  The design and development outputs shall: 
1)  Meet the design and development input 
requirements; 
2)  Provide appropriate information for purchasing, 
production, and service provision; 
3)  Include or reference the criteria for product 
acceptance; 
4)  Specify the characteristics of the product that 
are essential for safe and proper use. 
(b)  The outputs of the design and development 
process shall be provided in a form that enables 
verification against the design and development 
inputs and shall be approved prior to release. 
(c)  Records of the design and development outputs 
shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.5 Design and 
Development 
Review 
(a)  Systematic reviews of the design and 
development shall be conducted at appropriate 
stages in accordance with planned and 
documented methods for the purpose of: 
1)  Evaluating the ability of the design and 
development results to meet the requirements; 
2)  Identifying and proposing any necessary 
actions. 
(b)  Personnel participating in such reviews shall 
include not only the persons responsible for the 
design and development stage under review, 
but also other relevant experts. 
(c)  Records of the results of the reviews and any 
necessary actions shall be maintained and shall 
include identification of the design under 
review, the personnel participating in the 
review, and the dates of the review. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.6 Design and 
Development 
Verification 
(a)  Design and development verification shall be 
performed in accordance with planned and 
documented methods to ensure that the design 
and development outputs meet the input 
requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall document the 
verification plan, including the verification 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
361 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
methods, acceptance criteria, and, where 
applicable, statistical techniques with 
justification for sample size. 
(c)  If the intended use requires the in vitro 
diagnostic medical device to be connected to or 
interfaced with another in vitro diagnostic 
medical device, the verification shall include 
confirmation that the design outputs meet the 
design inputs when so connected or interfaced. 
(d)  Records of the verification results, conclusions, 
and any necessary actions shall be maintained. 
7.3.7 Design and 
Development 
Validation 
(a)  Design and development validation shall be 
performed, in accordance with planned and 
documented methods, to ensure that the 
resulting product meets the requirements for 
the intended use or specified application. 
(b)  The organization shall document the validation 
plan, including the validation methods, 
acceptance criteria, and, where applicable, 
justification for sample size. 
(c)  Design validation shall be performed on core 
product. Core product includes initial 
production units, batches, or their equivalents. 
The rationale for the selection of the product 
used for validation shall be recorded. 
(d)  As part of design and development validation, 
the organization shall perform clinical 
performance studies in accordance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 
(e)  In vitro diagnostic medical devices used for 
clinical performance studies shall not be 
considered as released for customer use. 
(f)  If the intended use requires the in vitro 
diagnostic medical device to be connected to or 
interfaced with another in vitro diagnostic 
medical device, the validation shall include 
confirmation that the product requirements for 
the specified application or intended use are 
met when so connected or interfaced. 
(g)  Validation shall be completed prior to the 
product’s release for customer use. 
(h)  Records of the results of validation, the 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
362 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
shall be maintained. 
7.3.8 Design and 
Development 
Transfer 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for 
the transfer of design and development outputs 
to manufacturing. These procedures shall 
ensure that the design and development outputs 
have been verified as suitable for 
manufacturing before becoming the final 
production specifications and that 
manufacturing capability can meet product 
requirements. 
(b)  Records of the results and conclusions of the 
transfer shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.9 Control of 
Design and 
Development 
Changes 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for 
controlling design and development changes. 
The organization shall determine the 
significance of changes to the function, 
performance, usability, safety, applicable 
statutory requirements, and intended use of the 
in vitro diagnostic medical device. 
(b)  Design and development changes shall be 
identified. Prior to implementation, the changes 
shall be: 
1)  Reviewed; 
2)  Verified; 
3)  Validated, where applicable; 
4)  Approved. 
(c)  The review of design and development changes 
shall include evaluation of the effects of the 
changes on constituent parts, products in 
manufacturing or already delivered, risk 
management inputs or outputs, and the 
production realization processes. 
(d)  Records of the changes, the review of the 
changes, and any necessary actions shall be 
maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.10 Design and 
Development File 
(a)  The organization shall maintain a design and 
development file for each in vitro diagnostic 
medical device model or item. 
(b)  This file shall contain or reference the records 
generated to demonstrate conformity with the 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
363 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
design and development requirements and the 
records of design and development changes. 
7.4. Purchasing 
7.4.1 Purchasing 
Process 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures to 
ensure that purchased product conforms to 
specified requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall establish criteria for the 
evaluation and selection of suppliers. The 
criteria shall be based on: 
1)  The supplier’s ability to provide product that 
meets the organization’s requirements; 
2)  The supplier’s performance; 
3)  The effect of the purchased product on the 
quality of the in vitro diagnostic medical 
device; 
4)  Proportionate to the risks associated with the in 
vitro diagnostic medical device. 
(c)  The organization shall plan monitoring and re-
evaluation of suppliers. The performance of 
suppliers in meeting purchased product 
requirements shall be monitored. The results of 
monitoring shall be provided as input to the 
supplier re-evaluation process. 
(d)  Non-fulfillment of purchasing requirements 
shall be addressed with the supplier in 
proportion to the risks associated with the 
purchased product and compliance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 
(e)  Records of the results of evaluation, selection, 
monitoring, and re-evaluation of suppliers and 
of any necessary actions arising from these 
activities shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.4.2 Purchasing 
Information 
(a)  Purchasing information shall describe or 
reference the product to be purchased, 
including, where appropriate: 
1)  Product specifications; 
2)  Requirements for product approval, procedures, 
processes, and equipment; 
3)  Requirements for the qualification of supplier 
personnel; 
4)  Quality management system requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall ensure the adequacy of 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
364 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
specified purchasing requirements prior to 
communication with the supplier. 
(c)  Purchasing information shall include, where 
appropriate, a written agreement that the 
supplier notify the organization of any changes 
to the product prior to implementation if such 
changes may affect the ability of the product to 
meet specified purchasing requirements. 
(d)  The organization shall maintain the relevant 
purchasing information as documents and 
records to the extent that traceability is required 
in accordance with Section 7.5.9. 
7.4.3 Verification of 
Purchased 
Product 
(a)  The organization shall establish and implement 
the inspection or other activities necessary to 
ensure that purchased product meets specified 
requirements. The extent of verification 
activities shall be based on the results of 
supplier evaluation and shall be proportional to 
the risks associated with the purchased product. 
(b) When the organization becomes aware of 
any changes to the purchased product, it shall 
determine whether such changes affect the 
production realization processes or the in vitro 
diagnostic medical device. 
(c)  If the organization or its customer intends to 
verify the purchased product at the supplier’s 
premises, the organization shall specify in the 
purchasing information the intended 
verification arrangements and the method of 
product release. 
(d)  Records of verification shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5  Production and 
Service Provision 
7.5.1 Control of 
Production and 
Service Provision 
(a)  Production and service provision shall be 
planned, carried out, monitored, and controlled 
to ensure that product conforms to 
specifications. Where appropriate, production 
control shall include, but not be limited to: 
1)  Documentation of procedures and methods for 
production control; 
2)  Qualification of infrastructure; 
3)  Implementation of monitoring and 
measurement of process parameters and 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
365 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
product characteristics; 
4)  Availability and use of monitoring and 
measuring equipment; 
5)  Implementation of activities specified for 
labeling and packaging operations; 
6)  Implementation of product release, delivery, 
and post-delivery activities. 
(b)  The organization shall provide traceability to 
the extent required in accordance with Section 
7.5.9 and shall establish and maintain records 
by in vitro diagnostic medical device or by in 
vitro diagnostic medical device batch that 
enable identification of the quantity produced 
and approved for distribution. These records 
shall be verified and approved. 
7.5.2 Cleanliness of 
Product 
The organization shall document requirements for 
cleanliness of product or contamination control of 
product in the following cases. Provided, however, 
that where the product is cleaned in accordance with 
1) or 2), the requirements of 6.4.1 do not apply prior 
to the cleaning process. 
1)  Product that is cleaned by the organization 
prior to sterilization or use; 
2)  Product supplied non-sterile that requires a 
cleaning process prior to sterilization or use; 
3)  Product that cannot be cleaned prior to 
sterilization or use and for which cleanliness is 
of significant importance for use; 
4)  Product supplied non-sterile for which 
cleanliness is of significant importance for use; 
5)  Removal of process agents used during 
manufacturing from the product. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.3 Installation 
Activities 
(a)  Where applicable, the organization shall 
document the acceptance criteria for 
installation of the in vitro diagnostic medical 
device and for its installation verification. 
(b)  Where installation by parties other than the 
organization or the supplier is permitted by the 
customer, the organization shall provide 
documented requirements for installation of the 
in vitro diagnostic medical device and for 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
366 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
installation verification. 
(c)  Records of installation of the in vitro diagnostic 
medical device and of installation verification 
performed by the organization or the supplier 
shall be maintained. 
7.5.4 Servicing 
Activities 
(a)  Where servicing of the in vitro diagnostic 
medical device is a specified requirement, the 
organization shall document, where necessary, 
servicing procedures, reference materials, and 
reference measurements for performing 
servicing activities and for verifying that the 
specified requirements are met. 
(b)  The organization shall analyze records of 
servicing activities performed by the 
organization or the supplier for the purpose of: 
1)  Determining whether the information should be 
handled as a complaint; 
2)  Providing, where applicable, input to the 
improvement processes. 
(c)  Records of servicing activities performed by 
the organization or the supplier shall be 
maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.5 Particular 
Requirements for 
Sterile In Vitro 
Diagnostic 
Medical Devices 
The organization shall maintain records of the 
parameters of the sterilization process used for each 
sterilization batch. Sterilization records shall be 
traceable to each production batch of the in vitro 
diagnostic medical device. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.6 Validation of 
Processes for 
Production and 
Service Provision 
(a)  The organization shall validate any processes 
for production and service provision where the 
resulting output cannot be verified by 
subsequent monitoring or measurement. 
Validation shall include all processes where 
deficiencies become apparent only after the 
product is used or the service is delivered. 
(b)  Validation shall demonstrate the ability of the 
processes to achieve the planned results 
consistently. 
(c)  The organization shall document procedures for 
process validation that include: 
1)  Defined criteria for review and approval of the 
processes; 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
367 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
2)  the suitability of equipment and personnel; 
3)  the use of specific methods, procedures, and 
acceptance criteria; 
4)  Statistical techniques, where applicable, 
including justification for sample size; 
5)  Requirements for records; 
6)  Revalidation, including the criteria for 
revalidation; 
7)  Approval of changes to the process. 
(d)  The organization shall document procedures for 
validation of the application of computer 
software used in production and service 
provision. Such software applications shall be 
validated prior to initial use and, where 
appropriate, validated after changes or software 
applications have been made. The specific 
approach and activities related to software 
validation and revalidation shall be 
proportionate to the risks associated with the 
use of the software, including the impact on 
product specifications and product 
performance. 
(e)  Records of the results of validation, the 
conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
resulting from the validation shall be 
maintained. 
7.5.7 Specific 
Requirements for 
Validation of 
Sterilization and 
Sterile Packaging 
Processes 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for 
validation of the sterilization processes and the 
sterile barrier systems. 
(b)  The sterilization processes and the sterile 
barrier systems shall be validated prior to initial 
use and, where applicable, prior to changes to 
the product or the process. 
(c)  Records of the results of validation, the 
conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
resulting from the validation shall be 
maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.8 Identification 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for 
product identification and shall identify the 
product by suitable means throughout 
production realization. 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
368 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
(b)  The organization shall identify the status of 
product with respect to monitoring and 
measurement requirements throughout 
production realization. The organization shall 
maintain identification of the status of product 
to ensure that only product that has passed the 
required tests and inspections, or that has been 
released under an approved concession, is 
dispatched, used, or installed during all phases 
of production, storage, installation, and 
servicing. 
(c)  Where required by applicable statutory 
requirements, the organization shall document a 
system for assigning a unique device 
identification (UDI) to the in vitro diagnostic 
medical device. 
(d)  The organization shall document procedures to 
ensure that in vitro diagnostic medical devices 
returned to the organization are identified and 
distinguished from conforming product. 
7.5.9 Traceability 
7.5.9.1 General 
Requirements 
The organization shall document procedures for 
traceability. These procedures shall define the scope 
of traceability and the records to be maintained in 
accordance with applicable statutory requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.9.2 Particular 
Requirements for 
In Vitro 
Diagnostic 
Medical Devices 
Subject to 
Traceability 
(a)  Where components, materials, or working 
environment conditions used could cause the in 
vitro diagnostic medical device not to meet 
specified safety and performance requirements, 
records required for traceability shall include 
records of the components, materials, and 
working environment conditions used. 
(b)  The organization shall require distributors or 
retailers to maintain records of sales of the in 
vitro diagnostic medical device and to make 
such records available for investigation to 
ensure product traceability. 
(c)  The organization shall maintain records of the 
name and address of the consignee for shipped 
product. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5.10 Customer 
Property 
Where customer property provided for use or 
incorporation into the product is under the 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
369 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
manufacturer’s control or is being used by the 
manufacturer, the organization shall identify, verify, 
protect, and safeguard such property. If customer 
property is lost, damaged, or found to be unsuitable 
for use, this shall be reported to the customer and 
records shall be maintained. 
7.5.11 Preservation of 
Product 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures to 
preserve product conformity to requirements 
during processing, storage, handling, and 
distribution. 
(b)  Preservation shall also apply to components of 
the in vitro diagnostic medical device. 
(c)  When exposed to expected conditions and 
hazards during processing, storage, handling, 
and distribution, the organization shall protect 
the product from alteration, contamination, or 
damage by the following means: 
1)  Designing and constructing appropriate 
packaging and transportation containers; 
2)  Documenting requirements for any special 
conditions needed where packaging alone does 
not provide preservation. 
(d)  Where special conditions are necessary, such 
conditions shall be controlled and recorded. 
 
 
 
 
 
7.6  Control of 
Monitoring and 
Measuring 
Equipment 
(a)  The organization shall determine the 
monitoring and measurement activities to be 
performed, and the monitoring and measuring 
equipment required, to demonstrate that the 
product meets specified requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall document procedures to 
ensure that monitoring and measurement 
activities are carried out in a manner consistent 
with the monitoring and measurement 
requirements. 
(c)  Where necessary to ensure valid results, 
measuring equipment shall: 
1)  Be calibrated or verified, or both, at specified 
intervals or prior to use, against measurement 
standards traceable to international or national 
measurement standards; Where no such 
standards exist, the basis used for calibration or 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
370 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
verification shall be recorded; 
2)  Be adjusted or re-adjusted as necessary. Such 
adjustments or re-adjustments shall be 
recorded; 
3)  Be identified to enable the calibration status to 
be determined; 
4)  Be safeguarded from adjustments that would 
invalidate the measurement result; 
5)  Be protected from damage and deterioration 
during handling, maintenance, and storage. 
(d)  The organization shall calibrate or verify the 
equipment in accordance with documented 
procedures. 
(e)  When equipment is found not to conform to 
requirements, the organization shall assess the 
validity of previous measurement results. The 
organization shall take appropriate action 
regarding the equipment and any product 
affected. Records of the results of calibration 
and verification shall be maintained. 
(f)  When computer software is used in monitoring 
or measuring the requirements specified, the 
organization shall document procedures for 
validation of the application of computer 
software. The software shall be validated prior 
to initial use and, where appropriate, 
revalidated after changes to the software or its 
application. The specific approach and 
activities related to software validation and 
revalidation shall be proportionate to the risks 
associated with the use of the software, 
including the impact on product specifications 
and product performance. 
(g)  Records of the results of validation, the 
conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
resulting from the validation shall be 
maintained. 
8.  Measurement, 
Analysis and 
Improvement 
8.1  General 
Requirements 
(a)  The organization shall plan and implement the 
monitoring, measurement, analysis, and 
improvement processes needed: 
1)  To demonstrate conformity of the product; 
2)  To ensure conformity of the quality 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
371 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
management system; 
3)  To maintain the effectiveness of the quality 
management system. 
(b)  This shall include determination of the 
methods, including statistical techniques, and 
the extent of their use. 
8.2  Monitoring and 
Measurement 
8.2.1 Feedback 
(a)  As one of the measurements of the 
effectiveness of the quality management 
system, the organization shall collect and 
monitor information relating to whether 
customer requirements have been met. 
(b)  The methods for obtaining and using this 
information shall be documented. 
(c)  The organization shall document procedures for 
the feedback process. The feedback process 
shall include provisions for gathering data from 
production as well as post-production activities. 
(d)  Information gathered in the feedback process 
shall be used as potential input to risk 
management in order to monitor and maintain 
the product requirements and the production 
realization or improvement processes. 
(e)  Where applicable statutory requirements 
require the organization to collect information 
from post-production activities, review of that 
information shall be part of the feedback 
process. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.2.2 Handling of 
Complaints 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for 
timely handling of complaints in accordance 
with applicable statutory requirements. These 
procedures shall include, at a minimum, the 
following requirements and responsibilities: 
1)  Receiving and recording information; 
2)  Evaluating information to determine whether 
feedback constitutes a complaint; 
3)  Investigating complaints; 
4)  Determining whether the information must be 
reported to the appropriate regulatory 
authorities; 
5)  Handling complaint-related product; 
6)  Determining the need for correction or 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
372 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
corrective action. 
(b)  If any complaint is not investigated, the 
justification for not conducting the 
investigation shall be documented. All results 
of corrections and corrective actions arising 
from the complaint handling process shall be 
documented. 
(c)  Where an investigation determines that 
activities external to the organization caused 
the complaint, relevant information shall be 
exchanged between the organization and the 
external parties. 
(e)  Records of complaint handling shall be 
maintained. 
8.2.3 Reporting to 
Regulatory 
Authorities 
(a)  Where complaints are subject to adverse event 
reporting or advisory notice reporting in 
accordance with applicable statutory 
requirements, the organization shall document 
procedures for reporting such complaints to the 
regulatory authorities. 
(b)  Records of reports submitted to regulatory 
authorities shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.2.4 Internal Audit 
(a)  The organization shall conduct internal audits 
at planned intervals to determine whether the 
quality management system: 
1)  Conforms to the planned and documented 
(established, implemented, and maintained) 
arrangements, the requirements of this GMP, 
the quality management system requirements 
established by the organization, and the 
applicable statutory requirements; 
2)  Is effectively implemented and maintained. 
(b)  The organization shall document procedures 
that define the responsibilities and requirements 
for planning and conducting audits, and for 
recording and reporting audit results. 
(c)  The audit program shall be planned, taking into 
consideration the status and importance of the 
processes and areas to be audited, as well as the 
results of previous audits. The audit criteria, 
scope, frequency, and methods shall be defined 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
373 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
and recorded. Auditors shall be selected and 
audits conducted to ensure objectivity and 
impartiality of the audit process. Auditors shall 
not audit their own work. Records of the audit 
and audit results, including the processes and 
areas audited and the conclusions reached, shall 
be maintained. 
(d)  Management responsible for the areas being 
audited shall ensure that necessary corrections 
and corrective actions are taken without undue 
delay to eliminate detected nonconformities 
and their causes. Follow-up activities shall 
include the verification of the actions taken and 
the reporting of the results of verification. 
8.2.5 Monitoring and 
Measurement of 
Processes 
The organization shall apply suitable methods for 
monitoring and, where applicable, measurement of 
the quality management system processes. These 
methods shall demonstrate the ability of the 
processes to achieve the planned results. When the 
planned results are not achieved, appropriate 
correction and corrective action shall be taken to 
ensure conformity of the product. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.2.6 Monitoring and 
Measurement of 
Product 
(a)  The organization shall monitor and measure the 
characteristics of the product to verify that 
product requirements have been met. This shall 
be carried out at appropriate stages of the 
production realization process in accordance 
with the planned and documented arrangements 
and documented procedures. 
(b)  Records demonstrating conformity with the 
acceptance criteria shall be maintained. The 
identity of the person authorizing product 
release shall be recorded. Where applicable, the 
test equipment used for measurement activities 
shall be identified and recorded. 
(c)  Product shall not be released, nor shall service 
be provided, until the planned and documented 
activities have been satisfactorily completed. 
(d)  For in vitro diagnostic medical devices subject 
to traceability, the organization shall identify 
and record the identity of personnel performing 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
374 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
all inspections or tests. 
8.3  Control of 
Nonconforming 
Product 
8.3.1 General 
(a)  The organization shall ensure that 
nonconforming product is identified and 
controlled to prevent its unintended use or 
delivery. The organization shall document 
procedures that define the controls and related 
responsibilities and authorities for dealing with 
nonconforming product, including 
identification, documentation, segregation, 
evaluation, and disposition. 
(b)  Evaluation of nonconformities shall include 
investigation into any external party 
responsible for the nonconformity and 
determination of whether notification is 
required. 
(c)  Records of the nonconformity, including the 
evaluation, investigation, the basis for the 
decisions made, and all actions taken in 
response, shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.3.2 Actions in 
Response to 
Nonconforming 
Product Detected 
Prior to Delivery 
(a)  The organization shall deal with 
nonconforming product in one or more of the 
following ways: 
1)  Taking action to eliminate the detected 
nonconformity; 
2)  Taking action to preclude its original intended 
use or application; 
3)  Authorizing its use, release, or acceptance 
under concession. 
(b)  The organization shall ensure that concessions 
are granted only when justified, approved, and 
compliant with applicable statutory 
requirements. Records shall be maintained to 
identify acceptance under concession and the 
personnel authorizing the concession. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.3.3 Actions in 
Response to 
Nonconforming 
Product Detected 
After Delivery 
(a)  When nonconforming product is detected after 
delivery or use, the organization shall take 
appropriate action regarding the effects or 
potential effects of the nonconformity. Records 
of the actions taken shall be maintained. 
(b)  The organization shall document procedures for 
issuing advisory notices in accordance with 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
375 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
applicable statutory requirements. These 
procedures shall be capable of being 
implemented at any time. Records of the 
actions related to advisory notices shall be 
maintained. 
8.3.4 Rework 
(a)  The organization shall perform rework in 
accordance with documented procedures that 
take into account any potential adverse effects 
on the product. These procedures shall be 
subject to the same review and approval as the 
original procedures. 
(b)  After completion of the rework, the product 
shall be verified to ensure that it meets the 
applicable acceptance criteria and statutory 
requirements. 
(c)  Records of the rework shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.4  Analysis of Data 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures to 
determine, collect, and analyze appropriate data 
to demonstrate the suitability, adequacy, and 
effectiveness of the quality management 
system. These procedures shall include the 
determination of appropriate methods, 
including statistical techniques and the extent 
of their application. 
(b)  Analysis of data shall include data generated 
from the results of monitoring and 
measurement and from other relevant sources, 
and shall include, at a minimum, the following 
inputs: 
1)  Feedback; 
2)  Conformity to product requirements; 
3)  Process and product characteristics and trends, 
including opportunities for improvement; 
4)  Suppliers; 
5)  Audits; 
6)  Service reports, where applicable. 
(c)  Where analysis of data shows that the quality 
management system is not suitable, adequate, 
or effective, the organization shall use this 
analysis as input for improvement as required 
in 8.5. 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
376 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
(d)  Records of the results of data analysis shall be 
maintained. 
8.5  Improvement 
8.5.1 General 
Requirements 
The organization shall identify and implement any 
changes necessary to ensure and maintain the 
ongoing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of 
the quality management system, as well as the safety 
and performance of in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices, through the use of the quality policy, 
quality objectives, audit results, post-marketing 
surveillance, data analysis, corrective and preventive 
actions, and management review. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.5.2 Corrective 
Action 
(a)  The organization shall take action to eliminate 
the causes of nonconformities in order to 
prevent their recurrence. 
(b)  Corrective actions required shall be taken 
without undue delay. Corrective actions shall 
be proportionate to the effects of the 
nonconformities encountered. 
(c)  Documented procedures shall define 
requirements for: 
1)  Reviewing nonconformities (including 
customer complaints); 
2)  Determining the causes of nonconformities; 
3)  Evaluating the need for action to ensure that 
nonconformities do not recur; 
4)  Planning and documenting the required actions 
and implementing them, including document 
changes where applicable; 
5)  Verifying that corrective actions do not 
adversely affect the safety and performance of 
the in vitro diagnostic medical device or 
compliance with applicable statutory 
requirements; 
6)  Reviewing the effectiveness of the corrective 
actions taken. 
(d)  Records of all investigation results and actions 
taken shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 
 
8.5.3 Preventive 
Action 
(a)  The organization shall determine preventive 
actions to eliminate the causes of potential 
nonconformities in order to prevent their 
occurrence. Preventive actions shall be 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
377 
 
GMP Criteria 
Requirements 
Assessment Criteria 
Assessment 
Result 
Remarks 
A B C D 
proportionate to the potential impacts of such 
issues. 
(b)  Documented procedures shall define 
requirements for: 
1)  Determining potential nonconformities and 
their causes; 
2)  Evaluating the need for action to prevent the 
occurrence of nonconformities; 
3)  Planning and documenting the required actions 
and determining and implementing such 
actions, including document changes where 
applicable; 
4)  Verifying that preventive actions do not 
adversely affect the safety and performance of 
the in vitro diagnostic medical device or 
compliance with applicable statutory 
requirements; 
5)  Reviewing the effectiveness of preventive 
actions taken, where applicable. 
(c)  Records of the results of all investigations and 
actions taken shall be maintained. 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
378 
 
1.  Assessment Sheet 
(a)  “A (Conforming)” means that the requirements prescribed in the Good Manufacturing 
Practice (GMP) are recognized as being met. 
(b)  “B (Additional action required)” means that the requirements prescribed in the Good 
Manufacturing Practice (GMP) are not being fully met, or that although the requirements 
are being met, the evidence of conformance, feasibility of implementation, or adequacy 
of documentation is insufficient, thereby requiring improvement or supplementary 
actions. 
(c)  “C (Nonconforming)” means that no action has been taken in response to “Additional 
action required,” or that a violation of statutes related to in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices has occurred. 
(d)  “D (Not applicable)” means that the requirement prescribed in the Good Manufacturing 
Practice (GMP) does not apply. 
 
2.  Determination Criteria 
(a)  Conforming 
1)  Where all items under each review criterion are rated “A (Conforming).” 
2)  Where all other items under each review criterion are rated “A (Conforming),” and 
certain sections—specifically Sections 4.1 through 6.3 (excluding Section 4.2.3) 
and Section 8.2.4—are rated “B (Additional action required).” Provided, however, 
that this shall not apply where the same item was rated “B (Additional action 
required)” or “C (Nonconforming)” in the previous assessment. 
(b)  Additional action required 
 
Where all other items under each assessment criterion are rated “A (Conforming),” and 
some items are rated “B (Additional action required)” (provided, however, that this does 
not apply to cases under item (a) 2)). 
(c)  Nonconforming 
1)  Where the required actions have not been submitted or have not been completed. 
2)  Where one or more items are rated “C (Nonconforming)” in the evaluation sheet. 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
379 
 
[Annex 3] 
GMP Product Groups for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
(Related to Articles 4, 6, and 7) 
Number 
Major Categories 
1 
Device for Sample Preparation 
2 
Devices for Clinical Chemistry 
3 
Devices for Clinical Immunology 
4 
Devices for Blood Transfusion 
5 
Devices for Clinical Microbiology 
6 
Devices for Molecular Diagnostics 
7 
Devices for Immuno Cyto/Histo Chemistry 
8 
In Vitro Diagnostic (IVD) Software 
9 
Innovative Medical Device Software 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
380 
 
[Annex 4] 
Entities and Methods for Conformity Recognition Assessments 
(Related to Article 6 and 8) 
 
The entities responsible for conformity recognition assessments and the methods thereof are 
as follows: Provided, however, that if the manufacturing site of the in vitro diagnostic medical 
device is classified as a manufacturing site of potential concern, a joint on-site inspection shall be 
conducted even when the site is subject only to document review or a single-agency on-site 
inspection. 
 
<Assessment Entity> 
Category 
Class 
Initial 
Assessment 
Additional 
Assessment 
Assessment for 
Change 
Periodic 
Assessment 
Manufacture 
Class I 
Single-agency 
Single-agency 
Single-agency 
- 
Class II 
Single-agency 
Single-agency 
Single-agency 
Single-agency 
Class III 
Joint 
Joint 
Joint 
Joint 
Class IV 
Joint 
Joint 
Joint 
Joint 
Import 
Class I 
Single-agency 
Single-agency 
Single-agency 
- 
Class II 
Single-agency 
Single-agency 
Single-agency 
Single-agency 
Class III 
Joint 
Joint 
Joint 
Joint 
Class IV 
Joint 
Joint 
Joint 
Joint 
 
1.  “Joint (assessment)” means a conformity recognition assessment conducted jointly by the 
Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety and the audit organization. 
2.  ‘Single-agency (assessment)’ means an assessment conducted solely by the audit organization. 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
381 
 
<Method of Assessment> 
Category 
Class 
Initial 
Assessment 
Additional 
Assessment 
Assessment for 
Change 
Periodic 
Assessment 
Manufacture 
Class I 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
- 
Class II 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Class III 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Class IV 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Import 
Class I 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
- 
Class II 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Class III 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Class IV 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
Document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
On-site 
inspection, 
document 
review 
 
1.  For on-site inspection targets falling under Article 6 (2) 2 through 5, a document review shall 
be conducted, where applicable. 
2.  For an assessment for change or a periodic assessment (limited to document reviews) of 
manufacturing sites for Class III and Class IV in vitro diagnostic medical devices, and for an 
assessment of manufacturing sites for in vitro diagnostic medical devices for export, the 
assessments shall be conducted as a single-agency assessment by the audit organization. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
382 
 
[Annex 5]  
Issuance and Management of Certificates of Conformity 
(Related to Articles 8 (9), 9, and 10) 
 
1.  The issuing authority for the Certificate of Conformity shall be as follows: 
(a)  For Class III and Class IV in vitro diagnostic medical devices, the Commissioner of 
Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety and the head of the audit organization; 
(b)  For Class II in vitro diagnostic medical devices, the head of the audit organization 
 
2.  Items of the Certificate of Conformity and Instructions for Entry 
(a)  General Principles 
1)  Each item of the Certificate of Conformity shall be presented in both Korean and 
English. 
2)  Printing paper specification: 130 g white, A4 (210 × 297 mm) 
(b)  Required Entries 
1)  Recognition Number 
① Agency code – ② Assessment type – ③ Serial number 
 
①  Agency code 
Name of audit organization 
Agency code 
Name of audit organization 
Agency code 
Korea Testing Laboratory 
KTL 
Korea Conformity 
Laboratories 
KCL 
Korea Testing Certification 
Institute 
KTC 
Korea Testing & Research 
Institute 
KTR 
TÜ V SÜ D Korea 
TSK 
TÜ V Rheinland Korea 
TRK 
 
② Assessment type: The assessment type shall be indicated using up to six digits.
  
Assessment 
type 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G 
1st digit 
 
 
Manufacture 
Import 
 
 
 
2nd digit 
Initial 
assessment 
Periodic 
assessment 
Additional 
assessment 
Assessment 
for 
change 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
383 
 
Assessment 
type 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G 
3rd digit 
Document 
review 
On-site 
inspection 
 
 
 
 
 
4th digit 
Others 
Class I 
For clinical 
performance 
studies 
For export 
Innovative 
medical 
device 
software 
Medical 
Device 
Single 
Audit 
Program 
(MDSAP) 
Excellent 
manufacturi
ng site 
5th digit Conforming 
2)* 
Not 
applicable 
 
 
 
 
 
6th digit 
 
 
 
 
Reissuance 
 
Replacement 
issuance 
 
* When applicable under Annex 2, Section 9.4, subparagraph 2 (a) 2) 
③  Serial number: A sequential number assigned in the order of assessment receipt 
2)  Name of business / License number: State the business name, business type 
(manufacturing 
or 
import), 
and 
license 
number 
as 
stated 
on 
the 
manufacturing/import business license. 
3)  Business address: State the address as shown on the manufacturing/import business 
license; for importers, state only the address of the place of business. 
4)  Name of manufacturing site: State the name of the manufacturing site of the legal 
manufacturer (where applicable) and the manufacturer. 
5)  Address of manufacturing site: State the location of the legal manufacturer (where 
applicable) and the manufacturer. 
6)  Product group: Enter the name of the product group corresponding to the product 
name listed on the product license (or notification) certificate; if multiple product 
groups apply, indicate them in an attachment. 
7)  Date of issuance: State the date of issuance of the Certificate of Conformity. 
8)  Expiration date: Indicate according to Article 9 of the text. 
9)  GMP mark: Print according to Annex 6. 
10)  Official seal and personal seal: Print one of each clearly, reflecting the appropriate 
colors. 
11)  Changes and administrative actions: State the assessment date, assessment type, 
transfer/acquisition, and other relevant matters. 
12)  Attachments: For all attachment pages, the recognition number (No.) shall be 
indicated in the upper left corner for identification. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
384 
 
13)  Page numbering: When attachments to the Certificate of Conformity exist, indicate 
the page number at the top right corner (e.g., “Page 1 of 2” when the attachments 
consist of two pages and the current page is the first).  
14)  Seal: An embossed seal shall be affixed in the blank space next to the official stamp 
at the lower right corner of the Certificate of Conformity, according to each issuing 
agency. 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
385 
 
[Annex 6]  
Marking of Conformity Recognition Assessment 
(Related to Article 11) 
 
1.  Design of the conformity recognition assessment mark 
(a)  Design 
 
(b)  Size ratio: Width × Height = 1 × 0.83 
(c)  Color code: Pantone 2736CVC 
 
2.  Methods and standards for marking 
(a)  The mark for conformity recognition assessment shall be applied based on the size and 
color specified in item (a), and may be used in various sizes (with the same proportions) 
and colors suitable for the characteristics of the product and its packaging materials; 
provided that the design of the mark shall not be altered. 
(b)  The method of the conformity recognition assessment marking in item (a) may follow the 
labeling requirements under Articles 13 through 15 of the Act on In Vitro Diagnostic 
Medical Devices, and the mark may be affixed to one or more of the following: the 
container, outer packaging, external package, or package insert.  
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
386 
 
[Form 1]  
(1/6) 
Application for Conformity Recognition Assessment for In Vitro Diagnostic 
Medical Devices 
Receipt number 
 
Type of business 
□  Manufacturing   
□  Import 
Business license 
number 
 
Name of business Korean: 
English: 
Representative 
Korean: 
English: 
Quality manager 
Name: 
Phone number: 
Address 
Korean: 
English: 
(☎ ) ( FAX ) 
Name/Address of 
manufacturing site 
subject to 
assessment 
Legal manufacturer: 
(Name) 
(Location) 
Manufacturer: 
(Name) 
(Location) 
Applicable criteria 
□  Class I in vitro diagnostic medical device 
□  In vitro diagnostic medical device for clinical performance studies 
□  In vitro diagnostic medical device for export 
□  Innovative medical device software 
□  Use of the Medical Device Single Audit Program 
□  Excellent manufacturing site 
 
※ Fill in only if applicable. 
Assessment type 
□  Initial assessment      □  Periodic assessment 
□  Assessment for change  □  Additional assessment 
Product 
Product group 
 
Product name / 
Class 
 
Preferred date of on-site inspection 
Year    Month    Day 
Remarks 
□  Applies as a manufacturing site of potential concern under Article 
6(3) 
In accordance with Article 7 of the Good Manufacturing Practice for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices, I 
hereby apply for conformity recognition assessments as stated above. 
 
Year   Month   Day 
Applicant 
 (Signature or Seal) 
 
To: Head of ○○○  Audit Organization 
※  Required Documents 
 
Submission of documents required for conformity recognition assessments under Article 7 
Fee 
To be prescribed 
separately 
210 mm × 297 mm [standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
387 
 
(2/6) 
Submission 
Status 
Required Documents 
Remarks 
(file name, 
etc.) 
 
1.  Application for Conformity Recognition Assessment for In Vitro 
Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
 
2.  A copy of the manufacturing (import) business license or conditional 
manufacturing (import) business license for in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices (excluding initial assessments or in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices for clinical performance studies) 
 
 
2-a. An overview of the manufacturing site (including the name of the site and 
the address of each facility; if there are multiple sites, all site names must 
be included), organizational chart, number of employees, and in vitro 
diagnostic medical devices manufactured 
 
 
2-b. A copy of the quality management system conformity certificate issued by 
the regulatory authority or an agency delegated by the regulatory authority 
(only applicable to Article 6 (2) and Article 6 (6)) and on-site inspection 
results (only applicable to Article 6 (2) 2 and Article 6 (6), including any 
follow-up actions taken in response to the inspection results) 
 
 
2-c. A description of facility conditions for each manufacturing site subject to 
assessment [including floor plans of work areas, test laboratories, and 
storage facilities (for software manufacturing sites, only if such work areas, 
test laboratories, or storage facilities exist), and lists of facilities and 
equipment], cleanroom procedures (if applicable), and procedures for 
monitoring and measurement equipment that specify monitoring cycles 
 
 
2-d. The quality manual of the manufacturing site (including the quality policy) 
 
 
2-e. Procedures and test reports related to finished product testing (e.g., final 
release inspection) for the core product of the manufacturing site (including 
documentation demonstrating sterilization for sterile products) 
 
 
2-f. Purchasing and outsourcing procedures for the core product of the 
manufacturing site, names of major suppliers (including contracted 
suppliers), and scope of work 
 
 
2-g. Device Master Records of the core product for the manufacturing site 
(including descriptions of specific manufacturing processes such as 
sterilization or software, as applicable), and procedures for validation of 
sterilization, where applicable 
 
 
2-h. Checklist for Annex 2 criteria of the manufacturing site 
 
 
2-i. Declaration of conformity to Annex 2 criteria of the manufacturing site 
 
 
2-j.  The designation certificate for the core product as an innovative medical 
device (applicable only to innovative medical device software) 
 
 
Other relevant documents. 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
388 
 
(3/6) 
Submission 
Status 
List of Required Documents (related to Article 7 (1) 3 ) 
Remarks 
(file name, 
etc.) 
 
1.  Application for Conformity Recognition Assessment for In Vitro 
Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
 
2.  The following documents corresponding to each item: 
 
 
2-a. A copy of the MDSAP conformity recognition certificate and the 
accompanying assessment results (including, where 
nonconformities were identified, the nonconformity report issued by 
the audit organization and the corrective and preventive action plan 
or results submitted by the manufacturing site that have been 
confirmed by the organization as compliant) 
 
 
2-b. 
Device Master Records for the product belonging to the highest 
classification level within each product group of the 
manufacturing site. Provided, however, that for an assessment 
for change, the Device Master Record shall be that of the product 
belonging to the highest classification level within the product 
group of the manufacturing site and having the highest 
manufacturing or import volume 
 
 
2-c. The following documents related to the quality management system: 
 
 
1)  Quality manual of the manufacturing site 
 
 
2)  Procedures related to record management 
 
 
3)  Procedures that define the scope of responsibilities of the 
quality manager 
 
 
4)  Procedures for managing medical devices subject to 
traceability (where applicable) 
 
 
5)  Procedures for adverse event reporting and advisory notices 
 
 
2-d. Documents demonstrating the correlation between the MDSAP 
certificate and the products subject to conformity recognition 
assessments 
 
※  To be completed only when applying for conformity recognition assessment using the Medical 
Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP). 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
389 
 
(4/6) 
Submission 
Status 
List of Required Documents (related to Article 7 (1) 4 ) 
Remarks 
(file name, 
etc.) 
 
1.  Application for Conformity Recognition Assessment for In Vitro 
Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
 
2.  A copy of the manufacturing (import) business license or 
conditional manufacturing (import) business license for in vitro 
diagnostic medical devices 
 
 
3.  The following documents corresponding to each item: 
 
 
3-a. Documentation confirming that the manufacturing site falls under 
Annex 1, subparagraph 69 (d) 
 
 
3-b. The Device Master Record for the core product that belongs to the 
highest classification level within each product group of the 
manufacturing site and has the highest manufacturing or import 
volume 
 
 
3-c. The following documents demonstrating the appropriateness of 
quality control over the past three years: 
 
 
1)  Procedures and test reports related to finished product testing 
(e.g., final release inspection) for the core product (including 
sterilization validation procedures and test reports for sterile 
products) 
 
 
2)  Documents on corrective and preventive actions taken in the 
last three years in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex 
2 
 
 
3)  Checklist under Annex 2 and declaration of conformity 
 
 
4.  Other relevant documents. 
 
※  To be completed only when applying for conformity recognition assessment as an Excellent 
Manufacturing Site. 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
390 
 
(5/6) 
Interrelation within the Quality Management System 
Category 
Manufacturing Process Flow 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Region of the 
manufacturing site 
(country name for 
foreign sites) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indication of 
whether 
manufacturing is 
outsourced or in-
house 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMP Criteria 
GMP Requirements 
Interrelation within the Quality Management 
System 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Quality Management 
System 
4.1  General Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Documentation Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Management 
Responsibility 
5.1  Management Commitment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Customer Focus 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Quality Policy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.4  Planning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.5  Responsibility, Authority, and 
Communication 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6  Management Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Resource Management 
6.1  Provision of Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2  Human Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Infrastructure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Work Environment and 
Contamination Control 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Production Realization 
7.1  Planning of Production Realization 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2  Customer-Related Processes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3  Design and Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.4  Purchasing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5  Production and Service Provision 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.6  Control of Monitoring and 
Measuring Equipment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  Measurement, Analysis 
and Improvement 
8.1  General Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.2  Monitoring and Measurement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.3  Control of Nonconforming Product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.4  Analysis of Data 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.5  Improvement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
391 
 
(6/6) 
Master List of Manufacturing Sites 
Information on the manufacturing site 
Information on manufactured products 
Remarks
Name of 
manufacturing 
site 
Location 
(address) 
Name of 
representative 
Head 
office 
address 
Recognition 
number 
Expiration 
date 
By product Subclass 
number 
Product 
name 
Approval 
Number 
Approval 
Date 
Class 
Manufacturing 
site 
A 
 
 
 
 
 
Product a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product b 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product c 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturing 
site 
B 
 
 
 
 
 
Product d 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product e 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product f 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturing 
site 
C 
 
 
 
 
 
Product g 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product h 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product i 
 
 
 
 
 
 
※ To be completed only when applying collectively for multiple manufacturing sites 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
392 
 
[Form 2]  
 (Front) 
Recognition Number (No.): 
 
체외진단의료기기 제조 및 품질관리기준 적합인정서 
(Certificate of GMP) 
 
 
 
▪ 
업소명/허가번호 
 
(Company name of Applicant / License No.) 
 
▪ 
업소 소재지 (Company Address of Applicant) 
 
▪ 
제조소명 (Name of Manufacturer) 
 
▪ 
제조소 소재지 (Address of Manufacturer) 
 
▪ 
품목군 (Product Group) 
 
 
체외진단의료기기 제조 및 품질관리기준에 적합함을 인정합니다. 
 
(We hereby certify that the above manufacturer complies with Korea Good Manufacturing 
Practices of In-Vitro Diagnostic Devices for the Product group listed above) 
 
발행일자(Date of Issue): . . . 
유효기한(Date of Expiration): . . . 
 
Commissioner of Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety 
Seal 
 
Head of the Audit Organization 
Seal 
 
 
 
210 mm × 297 mm [standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices

(Back Page)

Changes

(Change History Records of GMP certificate)

Q!X} (Date) LW Wescription)

393

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
394 
 
[Form 3] 
Report on the Results of Conformity Recognition Assessment for In Vitro 
Diagnostic Medical Devices 
Type of business 
□  Manufacturing   
□  Import 
Business license 
number 
 
Name of business 
 
Representative 
 
Address 
 
(☎ ) ( FAX ) 
Applicable criteria 
□  Class I in vitro diagnostic medical device 
□  In vitro diagnostic medical device for clinical performance studies 
□  In vitro diagnostic medical device for export 
□  Innovative medical device software 
□  Use of the Medical Device Single Audit Program 
□  Excellent manufacturing site 
 
※ Fill in only if applicable. 
Assessment type 
□  Initial assessment   
 
□ Periodic assessment   
□  Assessment for change  
□ Additional assessment 
Method of assessment 
□ On-site inspection □ Document review 
Product 
Product group 
 
Product name / Class 
 
Assessment team 
Affiliation 
Name 
Ministry of Food and Drug 
Safety 
 
Audit Organization 
(Name of Agency) 
 
Assessment date 
(YYYY/MM/DD) 
.     .     .     -     .     .     . 
Assessment result 
□  Conforming  
□ Additional actions required (by  .  .  )  
□  Nonconforming 
In the case of Annex 2, Section 9.4, subparagraph 2, item (a) 2), the results of corrective 
actions shall be submitted by (yyyy.mm.dd). 
In accordance with Articles 6 and 8 of the Good Manufacturing Practice for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices, we 
hereby report the results of the conformity recognition assessments as stated above. 
Year  Month  Day 
Head of ○○○  Audit Organization 
Seal 
 
 
 
 
※  Attachments: One copy of the Conformity Recognition Assessment Form for In Vitro Diagnostic Digital Medical 
Devices 
210 mm × 297 mm [Standard paper 60 g/㎡ (Recycled)] 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
395 
 
[Form 4] 
Periodic Report on the Results of Conformity Recognition Assessment for In 
Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
Name of 
audit 
organization 
 
Address 
 
( ☎      ) ( FAX     ) 
Assessment 
period 
.     .     .     -     .     .     . ( months) 
Assessment 
history 
Category 
Total 
Conforming 
Additional 
action 
required 
Nonconforming 
1)* 
2)** 
Initial 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional 
/ Change 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
 
Periodic 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
* When applicable under Annex 2, Section 9.4, subparagraph 2 (a) 1) 
* When applicable under Annex 2, Section 9.4, subparagraph 2 (a) 2) 
 
In accordance with Article 14 of the Good Manufacturing Practice for In Vitro Diagnostic 
Medical Devices, we hereby report the results of the quality control assessment as stated above. 
 
Year    Month     Day 
Head of ○○○  Audit Organization 
Seal 
 
 
 
 
※  Attachment: Detailed List of Quality Control Assessment Results for In Vitro Diagnostic 
Medical Devices (1 copy) 
210 mm × 297 mm [standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices 
 
396 
 
[Form 5] 
List of the Results of Conformity Recognition Assessment for In Vitro Diagnostic 
Medical Devices 
Name of audit organization 
 
Year Quarter 
Serial 
number 
Category 
Name of 
company 
Product name 
[Class] 
Assessment result 
(Conforming 1)* / 
Conforming 2)** 
/ Additional action 
required / 
Nonconforming) 
Remarks 
Manufacture 
/ Import 
Initial / 
change / 
Additional 
/ Periodic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* When applicable under Annex 2, Section 9.4, subparagraph 2 (a) 1) 
* When applicable under Annex 2, Section 9.4, subparagraph 2 (a) 2) 
210 mm × 297 mm [standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
397 
 
 
Standards of Good Manufacturing Practice 
(GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
[Enforced on April 21, 2025] 
 [Ministry of Food and Drug Safety Notice No. 2025-28; Apr. 21, 2025; Enacted] 
Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (Medical Device Policy Division)  
 
Article 1 (Purpose) The purpose of this GMP is to prescribe the specific requirements to be 
observed for the manufacture or import of digital medical devices pursuant to Articles 5 (1), 8 (4), 9 
(3), 11 (1), 12 (3), and 24, 25, and 48 of the Digital Medical Products Act, and Articles 12, 14, 19, 
24, 25, 27, 34, 35, and 54 of the Enforcement Rule of the same Act. 
 
Article 2 (Definitions) The definitions of terms used in this GMP shall be as specified in Annex 1. 
 
Article 3 (Scope of Application) (1) The scope of this GMP shall be as follows: 
1.  A person who intends to obtain manufacturing/import approval or manufacturing/import 
certification for digital medical devices, or who intends to submit a manufacturing/import 
notification; 
2.  A person who intends to manufacture or import medical device hardware for 
investigational use; 
3.  A person who has been granted a manufacturing business license (hereinafter referred to 
as the “manufacturer”) or a person who has been granted an import business license 
(hereinafter referred to as the “importer”) and who intends to undergo the assessment 
falling under each of the following subparagraphs (hereinafter referred to as “conformity 
determination assessment”). 
(a)  Conformity recognition and periodic assessment of the manufacturing and quality 
management system pursuant to the text of Article 8 (4) and the text of Article 12 (3) 
of the Digital Medical Products Act, and Article 12 (1) of the Enforcement Rule of 
the same Act 
(b)  Conformity determination (including conformity determination for changes) and 
periodic assessments under Article 24 of the Digital Medical Products Act 
(2)  Notwithstanding subparagraphs 1 through 3 of paragraph (1), A person who intends to 
manufacture digital medical devices solely for export (hereinafter referred to as “digital 
medical devices for export”), or A person who intends to manufacture or import Class I digital 
medical devices, shall comply with this GMP, but may be exempted from the conformity 
determination assessment. 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
398 
 
Article 4 (Classification of Conformity Determination Assessment) (1) Conformity 
determination assessment under this GMP shall be conducted by classifying them into the following 
categories: 
1.  The assessment that must be initially undergone under any of the following items in order 
to be determined as conforming to this GMP (hereinafter referred to as the “initial 
assessment”) 
(a)  The assessment to be undergone by a manufacturer or a manufacturing site of 
standalone software that is not combined with hardware (such as electronic or 
mechanical equipment), operates in an environment equivalent to a general-purpose 
computer, and functions independently as a digital medical device (hereinafter 
referred to as “standalone digital medical device software”) 
(b)  The assessment to be undergone by a manufacturer or manufacturing site of software 
that is installed in a digital medical device or connected to it, either wired or 
wirelessly, and is used for controlling or operating the digital medical device, or for 
storing data, processing signals, or processing images generated by the digital 
medical device (hereinafter referred to as “embedded digital medical device 
software”) 
(c)  The assessment to be undergone by a manufacturer or manufacturing site of medical 
device hardware under Article 2 subparagraph 2 of the Regulation on the 
Classification and Designation of Class of Digital Medical Products (hereinafter 
referred to as “medical device hardware”) 
2.  The assessment to be newly undergone when changes falling under the following items 
occur after having been determined as conforming to this GMP (hereinafter referred to as 
the “assessment for change”): 
(a)  Where a manufacturer or a manufacturing site of digital medical device software 
adds artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) functions pursuant to 
Annex 5; 
(b)  Where a manufacturing site of medical device hardware seeks to add another product 
group pursuant to Annex 5; 
(c)  Where a manufacturer or a manufacturing site of digital medical devices has no 
history of conformity determination under this GMP with respect to whether all or 
part of the manufacturing processes and services are outsourced; 
(d)  Where the location of a medical device hardware manufacturing site is changed or 
added. Provided, however, that changes to storage facilities or laboratories with 
minimal relevance to product quality shall be excluded; 
(e)  Where a medical device hardware manufacturer or a manufacturing site has changed 
the manufacturer or manufacturing site of the embedded digital medical device 
software; 
(f)  Where a manufacturer or a manufacturing site of embedded digital medical device 
software has changed the manufacturer or manufacturing site of medical device 
hardware. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
399 
 
(2)  Notwithstanding paragraph (1) 2, a manufacturer or a manufacturing site may undergo the 
assessment under paragraph (1) 1. In such cases, it shall be deemed to have undergone a 
periodic assessment under paragraph (3).  
(3)  A manufacturer and manufacturing site that has been determined as conforming pursuant to 
paragraph (1) shall undergo one periodic assessment every three years, as prescribed in each of 
the following subparagraphs: 
1.  A manufacturer or a manufacturing sites of digital medical device software; 
2.  A manufacturing site or a manufacturer of medical device hardware. 
(4)  Notwithstanding Article 3 (2) and (3), periodic assessments may be exempted in the following 
cases of each subparagraph: 
1.  Digital medical device for export; 
2.  Class I medical device hardware; 
3.  Medical device hardware for investigational use. 
(5)  Where an assessment received in substitution for the assessments under paragraphs (1) through 
(3) pursuant to Article 6 (2) (hereinafter referred to as the “alternate assessment”) has been 
conducted, it shall be deemed that the conformity determination assessment under this Notice 
has been undergone.  
 
Article 5 (Standards for Conformity Determination Assessment) (1) The standards for 
conformity determination assessment of digital medical devices shall be as prescribed in each of the 
following subparagraphs: 
1.  Annex 2 shall apply to medical device hardware. 
2.  Annexes 2 and 3 shall apply to digital medical device software. 
3.  Where artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) functions are incorporated, 
Annexes 2 through 4 shall apply. 
(2)  Notwithstanding paragraph (1), where any of the following subparagraphs applies, only part of 
Annexes 2 through 4 may be applied. In such cases, the applicant shall secure clear 
justification therefor. 
1.  Where the requirements pertain only to digital medical device software or only to medical 
device hardware; 
2.  In the case of an assessment for change under the text of Article 4 (1) 2 (d); 
3.  Notwithstanding Article 3 (2), where a conformity determination assessment under this 
GMP is applied for in relation to a Class I digital medical device; 
4.  Where a person intends to manufacture or import medical device hardware for 
investigational use. 
 
Article 6 (Methods of Conformity Determination Assessment) (1) The head of a quality 
management audit organization pursuant to Article 28 (2) of the Medical Device Act, which applies 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
400 
 
mutatis mutandis under Article 5 of the Digital Medical Products Act (hereinafter referred to as the 
“audit organization”), and the head of an agency designated to perform certification-related duties 
pursuant to Article 48 of the Digital Medical Products Act (hereinafter referred to as the “agency 
entrusted with certification-related duties”) (collectively referred to as the “heads of the audit 
organizations”) shall jointly conduct a document inspection and an on-site inspection in accordance 
with the following subparagraphs. In such cases, the audit organization and the agency entrusted 
with certification-related duties (hereinafter referred to as the “audit organizations”) may conduct a 
conformity determination assessment together with experts in the relevant field, and, in the case of 
digital medical device software, may conduct a remote inspection upon the applicant’s request. 
1.  An assessment shall be conducted by product group under Annex 5 for manufacturers and 
manufacturing sites of digital medical device software.  
2.  Where the entire manufacturing process of digital medical device software or medical 
device hardware is performed under a contractual manufacturing arrangement between 
the legal manufacturer and the manufacturer (hereinafter collectively referred to as the 
“legal manufacturer and manufacturer”), each shall be subject to a separate assessment. 
3.  Where an outsourced entity (hereinafter referred to as the “supplier”) is entrusted with 
part of the manufacturing process or related services, each such supplier shall be subject 
to a separate assessment. In such cases, only part of Annexes 2 through 4 shall be applied 
within the scope of the outsourced work. 
(2)  Notwithstanding paragraph (1), in any of the following subparagraphs, the conformity 
determination assessment may be substituted.  
1.  Where another manufacturer or importer submits a valid certificate of conformity 
determination under this GMP for the relevant manufacturing site or manufacturer; 
2.  Where a manufacturer or importer of medical devices (including in vitro diagnostic 
medical devices) under the Medical Device Act or the Act on In Vitro Diagnostic Medical 
Devices submits a valid conformity recognition certificate issued under the Good 
Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices or the Good Manufacturing Practice for In 
Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices for the relevant manufacturing site or manufacturing 
site operator (limited to medical device hardware and digital medical device software 
without artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) functions); 
3.  Where a relevant manufacturing site has obtained a valid conformity certificate under the 
Good Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices or the Good Manufacturing Practice 
for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices pursuant to Article 4 (1) 2 (b), and submits a 
conformity recognition certificate (limited to valid certificates) whose item group falls 
under the product group of Annex 5 (limited to medical device hardware); 
4.  Where a manufacturer submits a copy of a quality management system conformity 
recognition certificate and on-site inspection results (including follow-up actions based on 
such results), issued by a regulatory authority or an institution delegated by the regulatory 
authority for a manufacturing site whose location has been changed pursuant to the text of 
Article 4 (1) 2 (d) (limited to medical device hardware); 
5.  Where a manufacturer submits a quality management system conformity recognition 
certificate (hereinafter referred to as the “MDSAP conformity recognition certificate”) 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
401 
 
and the on-site inspection results (including any follow-up actions), issued by an audit 
organization under item 58 of Annex 1 pursuant to the Medical Device Single Audit 
Program (MDSAP) (limited to medical device hardware). 
(3)  Notwithstanding paragraph (2), an on-site inspection shall be conducted for digital medical 
devices in any of the following subparagraphs: 
1.  Where the materials under paragraph (2) 2 through 5 cannot be submitted due to trade 
secrets or similar reasons, and an on-site inspection is requested; 
2.  Where the materials under Article 7 (1) cannot be submitted due to trade secrets or similar 
reasons, and an on-site inspection is requested; 
3.  Where the Minister of Food and Drug Safety recognizes that public health may otherwise 
be affected. 
(4)  Notwithstanding Article 4, digital medical devices shall undergo a new initial assessment in 
any of the following subparagraphs: 
1.  Where the expiration date of a certificate of conformity determination issued to a 
manufacturing site or manufacturer of digital medical devices for export, Class I digital 
medical devices, or medical device hardware for investigational use has expired and 
conformity determination assessment are applied for again; 
2.  Where the legal manufacturer in a legal manufacturer–manufacturer relationship that has 
undergone a conformity determination assessment is changed or removed; 
3.  Where a manufacturing site that has undergone conformity determination assessment for 
Class I digital medical devices under Article 5 (2) 3 intends to manufacture or import 
Class II, III, or IV digital medical devices; 
4.  Where the location of a manufacturing site that has undergone conformity determination 
assessment for medical device hardware for investigational use under Article 5 (2) 4 is 
changed, another item group of medical device hardware for investigational use is added, 
or the hardware is intended to be manufactured or imported for commercial sale. 
(5)  A manufacturing site or manufacturer for which only a document inspection has been 
conducted pursuant to Article 35 (1) of the Enforcement Rule of the Digital Medical Products 
Act shall, for each manufacturing or import unit, submit test reports prepared in accordance 
with its in-house quality control test specifications to the head of the relevant agency entrusted 
with certification-related duties.  
 
Article 7 (Application for Conformity Determination Assessment) (1) Any person falling under 
any of the subparagraphs of Article 3 (1) who intends to undergo conformity determination 
assessment under this GMP shall submit the application form with Form 1, along with the following 
documents of each subparagraph, to the head of the agency entrusted with certification-related 
duties. In such cases, except for digital medical device software, the relevant manufacturer and 
manufacturing site shall have quality management performance for at least one manufacturing unit, 
and the desired on-site inspection date shall be fixed and applied for at least 20 days prior to the 
start of the inspection. 
1.  For digital medical device software, the following documents of each item shall be 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
402 
 
submitted: 
(a)  Documents under Article 34 (1) 1 through 6 of the Enforcement Rule of the Digital 
Medical Products Act;  
(b)  Process flow diagrams, purchasing and outsourcing procedures, names of suppliers 
(including contracted suppliers), and scope of work for the core products of each 
product group under Annexes 5 and 6 for a manufacturer or manufacturing site; 
(c)  Device Master Records for core products of each product group under Annexes 5 
and 6, and procedures related to cybersecurity against electronic intrusion for a 
manufacturer or manufacturing site. 
2.  For medical device hardware, the documents under Article 7 (1) of the Good 
Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices or the documents under Article 7 (1) of the 
Good Manufacturing Practice for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices, together with 
process flow diagrams, shall be submitted. 
3.  Pursuant to Article 4 (5), in the case of an alternative assessment, the required materials 
shall consist of the process flow diagrams for core products by product group under 
Annexes 5 and 6 for a manufacturer or manufacturing site; and the applicable materials 
under each item of Article 6 (2). 
(2)  A manufacturer or importer who must undergo a periodic assessment under Article 4 (3) shall, 
no later than three months before the expiration date stated on the certificate of conformity 
determination, submit the application form with Form 1 together with the documents specified 
in paragraph (1) to the head of the agency entrusted with certification-related duties to apply 
for the periodic assessment. In such cases, the desired on-site inspection date shall be fixed and 
applied for no later than 20 days before the expiration date stated on the certificate of 
conformity determination, and if the desired on-site inspection date is not confirmed at the 
time of application submission, the applicant shall submit the desired date in writing no later 
than 20 days before the start date of the requested on-site inspection.  
(3)  Upon receiving an application for conformity determination assessment under paragraph (1) or 
(2), the head of the agency entrusted with certification-related duties shall forward the 
application and related documents to the head of the audit organization.  
(4)  If a manufacturer or importer required to apply for a periodic assessment under Article 4 (3) 
fails to apply by three months before the expiration date under paragraph (2), the head of the 
agency entrusted with certification-related duties shall report the business name, 
representative, and other relevant information to the Commissioner of Regional Office of Food 
and Drug Safety. 
 
Article 8 (Procedures for Conformity Determination Assessment) (1) Upon receiving an 
application for conformity determination assessment under Article 7 (1), the head of the audit 
organization shall comply with each of the following subparagraphs: 
1.  The submission of the supporting documents under Article 7 (1) shall be verified within 
five days, and where no deficiencies are identified, the application shall be accepted. 
2.  If, as a result of confirming whether the supporting documents under subparagraph 1 have 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
403 
 
been submitted, any deficiency such as missing supporting documents is identified, the 
applicant shall be requested to supplement them by setting a supplementation deadline for 
the submission of such documents in accordance with the Administrative Procedures Act. 
3.  Notwithstanding subparagraph 1, where an application additionally includes a confirmed 
desired on-site inspection date, the request shall be made no later than the day following 
the receipt of the application. 
(2)  The head of the audit organizations shall, within 10 days from the date of acceptance under 
paragraph (1) 1, notify the applicant of whether experts in the relevant field will attend and of 
other matters related to the assessment. 
(3)  The head of the audit organization shall notify the applicant in writing of the assessment 
results under Article 7 within 30 days from the date on which the application for conformity 
determination assessment was received. Provided, however, that where an on-site inspection or 
a remote inspection (hereinafter referred to as “on-site inspection, etc.”) is conducted under 
Article 6 (1), the period from the date on which the applicant is notified to the start date of the 
on-site inspection, etc. under paragraph (3) shall not be counted toward the processing period.  
(4)  Where an on-site inspection, etc. is conducted under Article 6 (1), the heads of the audit 
organizations shall conduct the inspection in accordance with the following subparagraphs: 
1.  The on-site inspection, etc. shall be conducted in accordance with the matters notified to 
the applicant under paragraph (2), and the results shall be notified to the applicant in 
writing within seven days from the completion date of the on-site inspection, etc., or 
within the processing period under paragraph (3). Provided, however, that if the results of 
the on-site inspection, etc. are determined to be nonconforming, the Commissioner of 
Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety shall be notified immediately. 
2.  If an on-site inspection cannot be conducted due to war, epidemics, natural disasters, or 
other similar circumstances during the inspection period, or if the inspection cannot 
proceed normally due to delayed or refused submission of inspection documents, the on-
site inspection may be suspended. In such cases, the applicant shall be immediately 
notified in writing of the reasons for the suspension, and the Commissioner of Regional 
Office of Food and Drug Safety shall be notified accordingly. 
3.  When the reason for suspension under subparagraph 2 is confirmed to be resolved, the on-
site inspection may resume, and the results shall be notified to the applicant in writing 
within seven days from the completion date of the resumed inspection or within the 
processing period under paragraph (3). 
(5)  Where the head of the audit organization is unable to notify the applicant of the conformity 
determination assessment results within the processing period under paragraphs (3) and (4) due 
to unavoidable reasons such as natural disasters, the head shall notify the applicant in advance 
of the delay. In such cases, this shall apply only where the on-site inspection is conducted 
pursuant to the text of Article 6 (1). 
(6)  Where matters requiring supplementation are identified, the head of the audit organization 
shall take the following actions with respect to the results of the conformity determination 
assessment: 
1.  The applicant shall be requested to make supplementation, including the supplementation 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
404 
 
procedure and deadline, in accordance with the Civil Petitions Treatment Act. After 
reviewing the applicant’s submissions in response to the supplementation request, the 
conformity shall be evaluated.  
2.  Where the applicant, pursuant to the first part of subparagraph 1, is unable to submit the 
required documents due to trade secrets or similar reasons and requests an on-site 
inspection, an on-site inspection, etc. may be conducted. In such cases, the related 
expenses may be charged to the applicant by applying mutatis mutandis the provisions 
governing on-site inspections under the text of Article 6 (1), and, in the case of a remote 
inspection, the applicant shall prepare the necessary remote inspection platforms and 
tools. 
3.  If the applicant fails to submit the required documents within the supplementation 
deadline, the application shall be determined nonconforming. 
4.  Where an application is determined to be nonconforming under subparagraph 3, the 
Commissioner of Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety shall be notified immediately, 
and the application shall be determined nonconforming. 
(7)  The head of the audit organization shall prepare and retain the result report in Form 3 
regarding the assessment results. 
(8)  Where the results of the conformity determination assessment under Article 6 are found to be 
conforming, the head of the audit organization shall issue to the applicant the certificate of 
conformity determination under the Good Manufacturing Practice for Digital Medical Devices, 
in Form 2 and in accordance with Annex 7.  
(9)  If the applicant objects to the assessment results under Article 6, an objection may be filed in 
accordance with the Civil Petitions Treatment Act. 
(10) Upon receiving an objection under paragraph (9), the head of the audit organization shall 
prepare and retain the results of the disposition made in response to the objection. 
 
Article 9 (Expiration Date of the Certificate of Conformity Determination) (1) The expiration 
date of a certificate of conformity determination issued following an initial assessment shall be 
three years from the date of issuance. 
(2)  Where conformity determination is granted based on an assessment for change, it shall not 
affect the existing expiration date. 
(3)  Notwithstanding paragraph (2), where an assessment is conducted pursuant to the text of 
Article 4 (2), paragraph (4) shall apply. 
(4)  The expiration date of a certificate of conformity determination issued following a periodic 
assessment shall be three years from the day after the expiration date of the previous certificate 
of conformity determination. Provided, however, that where the date of issuance of the 
certificate of conformity determination is later than the expiration date of the previous 
certificate, the expiration date shall be three years from the date of issuance. 
(5)  Where a conformity determination assessment is conducted pursuant to Article 6 (2) 1, the 
expiration date for the relevant manufacturer and manufacturing site shall be calculated to 
coincide with the expiration date of the manufacturer or importer that previously underwent 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
405 
 
the conformity determination assessment. 
(6)  Where a conformity determination assessment is conducted pursuant to Article 6 (2) 2, the 
expiration date for the relevant manufacturer, manufacturing entity, or manufacturing site, shall 
be calculated to coincide with the expiration date of the manufacturer or importer that 
previously underwent the conformity determination assessment. 
(7)  Where the expiration date of the certificate of conformity determination for embedded digital 
medical device software differs from that of the conformity recognition certificate for medical 
device hardware, the expiration date shall be determined based on the certificate with the 
longer remaining validity.  
(8)  For medical device hardware for which conformity recognition assessments have been 
conducted under the Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP), the expiration date for 
the relevant manufacturing site shall be set to be identical to the expiration date of the MDSAP 
conformity recognition certificate. 
 
Article 
10 
(Reissuance 
of 
the 
Certificate 
of 
Conformity 
Determination, 
etc.) 
(1) A manufacturer or importer that has received a certificate of conformity determination pursuant 
to Article 8 (8) may apply to the head of the audit organization for reissuance if reissuance is 
required due to loss of the certificate or other reasons. 
(2)  Where the head of the audit organization receives an application for reissuance under 
paragraph (1), the head shall reissue the certificate of conformity determination in accordance 
with Annex 7. 
(3)  A manufacturer or importer may either obtain reissuance of the certificate of conformity 
determination or record the changes in any of the following subparagraphs on the reverse side 
of the certificate for control purposes: 
1.  Change in the name of the manufacturing or importing business; 
2.  Change in the location of a manufacturing site (limited to cases under the proviso of 
Article 4 (1) 2 (d) and to digital medical device software); 
3.  Change in the location of an importing business; 
4.  Change in the trade name of the legal manufacturer or the manufacturer; 
5.  Change in the location of the legal manufacturer or the manufacturer (limited to cases 
under the proviso of Article 4 (1) 2 (d) and to digital medical device software); 
6.  Change in location due to administrative district reorganization. 
(4)  Where a manufacturer or importer records the changes on the reverse side of the certificate 
pursuant to paragraph (3), the manufacturer or importer shall also record the date and details of 
the approval of change, certification of change, or notification of change. 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
406 
 
Article 11 (Return of the Certificate of Conformity Determination) (1) Where any of the 
following subparagraphs occur, a manufacturer or importer that has received a certificate of 
conformity determination pursuant to Article 8 (8) may return the certificate to the head of the audit 
organization that issued it, specifying the reasons therefor in detail. 
1.  Where the manufacturing business license or import business license is revoked; 
2.  Where the manufacturing approval, import approval, manufacturing certification, or 
import certification is revoked; 
3.  Where any other reasons exist requiring the manufacturer or importer to return the 
certificate of conformity determination. 
(2)  In accordance with paragraph (1), the head of an audit organization, etc. who has received the 
return of the certificate of conformity determination shall, immediately upon receipt of the 
returned conformity recognition certificate, report the fact of its return to the Commissioner of 
the Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety. 
 
Article 12 (Marking of Conformity Determination Assessment) A manufacturer or importer that 
has received a certificate of conformity determination pursuant to Article 8 (8) may affix the 
marking for conformity determination assessment, as prescribed in Annex 8, to digital medical 
devices that belong to the same product group as the manufacturing sites and manufacturers that 
underwent such assessments. 
 
Article 13 (Duties of the Audit Organization) The duties of the head of the audit organization 
shall be any of following subparagraphs: 
1.  Conduct a conformity determination assessment under the Good Manufacturing Practice 
for Digital Medical Devices; 
2.  Issuance of certificates of conformity determination; 
3.  Statistics and support related to conformity determination assessment; 
4.  Other matters necessary for conformity determination assessment. 
 
Article 14 (Reporting) (1) The head of the audit organization shall submit the quarterly report on 
the results of conformity determination assessment for digital medical devices, prepared in Form 4, 
and the detailed list of assessment results, prepared in Form 5, to the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety and the Commissioner of Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety within 20 days after the 
end of each quarter. Provided, that where the Minister of Food and Drug Safety or the 
Commissioner of Regional Office of Food and Drug Safety requests separate data, the relevant data 
shall be submitted within seven days from the date of the request. 
(2)  Where there are personnel changes, such as transfers or resignations of auditors, the head of 
the audit organization shall report such changes to the Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
within seven days. 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
407 
 
Article 15 (Review of Regulation) In accordance with Article 8 of the Framework Act on 
Administrative Regulations and the Regulation on the Issuance and Management of Directives and 
Guidelines, the validity of this Notice shall be reviewed every three years, starting from January 1, 
2025 (until December 31 of every third year), and necessary measures, including improvements, 
shall be taken. 
 
ADDENDA <No. 2025-28, Apr. 21, 2025> 
Article 1 (Enforcement Date) This Notice shall enter into force on the date of its promulgation. 
 
Article 2 (Applicable Cases) This Notice shall apply to the manufacturer, importer, contract 
manufacturer, and manufacturing site that first submit an application after its enforcement. 
 
Article 3 (Transitional Measures) (1) A person who, at the time of enforcement of this Notice, has 
been issued a conformity recognition certificate for medical devices or in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices under the previous regulations shall be deemed to have been issued a certificate of 
conformity determination for digital medical devices under this Notice.  
(2)  Where an assessment for conformity recognition of medical devices or in vitro diagnostic 
medical devices has been applied for and is in progress, the previous regulations shall apply. 
 
 
[Annex 1] Definitions (Related to Article 2) 
 
[Annex 2] Criteria for Conformity Determination Assessment (Related to Article 5) 
 
[Annex 3] Criteria for Assessment of Digital Medical Device Software (Related to Article 5) 
 
[Annex 4] Criteria for AI Control Measures Assessment for Digital Medical Devices (Related 
to Article 5) 
 
[Annex 5] Product Groups for Digital Medical Devices (Related to Articles 4, 6, and 7) 
 
[Annex 6] Selection of Core Products (Article 7) 
 
[Annex 7] Issuance and Management of Certificate of Conformity Determination (Article 8 
(8), Article 9, and Article 10) 
 
[Annex 8] Mark for Conformity Determination Assessment (Related to Article 12) 
 
[Form 1] Application for Conformity Determination Assessment for Digital Medical Devices 
 
[Form 2] Certificate of GMP for Digital Medical Devices 
 
[Form 3] Report on the Results of Conformity Determination Assessment for Digital Medical Devices 
 
[Form 4] Periodic Report on the Results of Conformity Determination Assessment for Digital 
Medical Devices (Standalone Digital Medical Device Software) 
 
[Form 5] List of Conformity Determination Assessment Results for Digital Medical Devices 
(Standalone Digital Medical Device Software)

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
408 
 
[Annex 1] 
Definitions (Related to Article 2) 
1.  “Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices” means a quality 
management system that prescribes the requirements to be observed to ensure the quality of 
digital medical devices throughout all processes—from development and procurement of raw 
materials to manufacturing, testing, packaging, installation, storage, shipment, and the 
handling of complaints or returns—so that products of consistently high quality may be 
supplied.  
2.  “Conformity Determination Assessment” means assessments conducted to determine whether 
digital medical devices are consistently produced with a level of quality that provides a high 
level of assurance of their safety, effectiveness, and suitability for their intended use. 
3.  “Quality Management System” means a management system for efficiently managing the 
organization, responsibilities, procedures, processes, and resources for product quality 
management. 
4.  “Product Group” means a classification of medical devices based on instruments, machinery, 
devices, or materials. 
5.  “Manufacturing Unit” or “Lot” means a unit of finished products, components, or raw 
materials manufactured under the same manufacturing conditions and having uniform 
characteristics and quality. 
6.  “Device Master Record (DMR)” means a document that contains detailed information on all 
manufacturing processes—from the design of the product to shipment (installation)—including 
specifications, manufacturing processes, manufacturing criteria, and installation, for each 
medical device item or model. 
7.  “Manufacturing” means all operations required to produce medical devices, including design, 
packaging, and labeling. 
8.  “Quality” means the degree to which a set of inherent characteristics fulfills requirements. 
9.  “Quality Control (QC)” means the part of quality management that focuses on fulfilling quality 
requirements. 
10.  “Safety” means the property of being free from hazards or the risk of malfunction, and of 
ensuring safe performance. 
11.  “Sterilized Device” means a medical device that undergoes a sterilization process during 
manufacturing and is labeled as sterilized on the product container or packaging with 
indications such as the word “sterile,” the sterilization method, and the expiration date. 
12.  “Batch” means a specified quantity of products produced during a defined manufacturing 
cycle, intended to have uniform characteristics and quality. 
13.  “Sterilization” means a process that uses physical or chemical methods to destroy all types of 
microorganisms, including spores. 
14.  “Organization” means a group of personnel and facilities with an established arrangement of 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
409 
 
responsibilities, authorities, and interrelationships. 
15.  “Quality Manual” means a document that defines the manufacturer’s quality management 
system and describes the details or requirements appropriate to the scale and complexity of the 
organization. 
16.  “Quality Policy” means the overall intentions and direction of an organization related to 
quality, as formally expressed by top management.  
17.  “Quality Objective” means a target or objective that is pursued with respect to quality. 
18.  “Manufacturing Process” means the activities related to the design and development, 
procurement of raw materials, incoming inspection, production, in-process inspection, finished 
product inspection, packaging, labeling, shipment, and storage for the manufacture of medical 
devices. 
19.  “Process” means a set of interrelated or interacting activities that transforms inputs into 
outputs. 
20.  “Procedure” means an established method for performing an activity or process.  
21.  “Document” means criteria or procedures that are specified or created prior to performing an 
activity. 
22.  “Record” means a document that states achieved results or provides evidence of activities 
performed.  
23.  “Review” means an activity conducted to determine the suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness 
of a subject in order to achieve established objectives. 
24.  “Service” means an intangible output of an organization involving activities that necessarily 
occur between the organization and the customer, such as decision-making, relationship-
maintenance activities, repair, transportation, and information delivery. 
25.  “Management Review” means an activity conducted by top management at planned intervals 
to evaluate the need for changes to, and the potential for improvement of, the quality 
management system, including the quality policy and quality objectives, in order to ensure its 
continuing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness. 
26.  “Requirement” means an expressed need or expectation, generally one that is implicit or 
obligatory.  
27.  “Effectiveness” means the extent to which planned activities are realized and planned results 
are achieved. 
28.  “Efficiency” means the ratio or relationship between the results achieved and the resources 
used. 
29.  “Infrastructure” means the system of facilities, equipment, and services required for the 
operation of an organization. 
30.  “Production Realization” means the combined sequence of processes and detailed processes 
required to achieve a product. 
31.  “Design and Development” means a set of processes that transforms requirements into 
specified characteristics or into the specifications of a product, process, or system.  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
410 
 
32.  “Verification” means confirmation, through the provision of objective evidence (data 
demonstrating the existence of something or substantiating a fact) and testing, that specified 
requirements have been fulfilled.  
33.  “Validation” means the act of verifying and documenting that methods of manufacturing and 
quality control—including the structure and facilities of the manufacturing site, manufacturing 
processes, and systems—achieve the intended results. 
34.  “Revalidation” means validation activities that are conducted either periodically or in response 
to changes to raw materials, manufacturing processes, machinery and equipment, or 
manufacturing systems that may have an impact on product quality. 
35.  “Cleaning” means a chemical or physical method used to remove contaminants or 
microorganisms from surfaces. 
36.  “Installation” means the activities of placing a product at the site of use and enabling it to 
operate in accordance with its intended purpose, including arrangements such as piping and 
waste disposal. 
37.  “Traceability” means identifying and managing the sources of raw materials and components 
of a medical device, its quality control history, and information on its distributors and users 
(locations). 
38.  “Identification” means the activities performed at all stages—including raw materials, 
materials, in-process products, and finished products—to ensure product traceability and 
proper transfer to the next process or shipment. 
39.  “Customer” means a collective term for purchasers and users (patients and healthcare 
professionals).  
40.  “Customer Property” means assets owned by the customer, which include each of the 
following items: 
(a)  Raw materials or components (including packaging materials) provided for inclusion in 
the product;  
(b)  Products supplied for repair, maintenance, or upgrading; 
(c)  Products supplied for additional processes (such as packaging, sterilization, or testing 
using customer-provided materials); 
(d)  Services provided on behalf of the customer (e.g., transportation of customer property to a 
third party); 
(e)  Customer intellectual property (e.g., specifications, drawings, and asset information). 
41.  “Measuring Equipment” means measuring instruments, software, measurement standards, 
reference materials, auxiliary devices, or combinations thereof required to carry out a 
measurement process. 
42.  “Calibration” means the operation that confirms that a specific device or instrument produces 
results within the prescribed limits when measured against measurement standards recognized 
under international or national standards. 
43.  “Audit” means a systematic and independent verification activity conducted to determine 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
411 
 
whether quality-related work and its associated results conform to planned arrangements and 
whether such arrangements have been effectively implemented and are suitable for achieving 
the intended objectives. 
44.  “Concession” means written approval to use or release a specific product that has minor 
nonconformities not directly related to safety or effectiveness, provided that statutory 
requirements are met. 
45.  “Correction” means an action taken to eliminate a detected nonconformity. 
46.  “Corrective Action” means an action taken to eliminate the cause of a detected nonconformity 
or other undesirable situation. 
47.  “Preventive Action” means an action taken to eliminate the cause of a potential nonconformity 
or other undesirable situation to prevent its occurrence. 
48.  “Risk Management” means an advanced safety management system that analyzes and 
evaluates all risks that may arise throughout the entire life cycle of a medical device—
including design, production, distribution, and use—and manages those risks to an acceptable 
level.  
49.  “Rework” means an operation performed to bring a nonconforming product into conformity 
with quality standards by applying a method different from the established manufacturing 
process. 
50.  “Advisory Notice” means a communication issued by the manufacturing site after delivery of a 
medical device for the purpose of providing additional information or recommending actions 
regarding the use, change, return, or disposal of the medical device. 
51.  “Quality Nonconformity” means a case in which a medical device manufactured or imported 
for the purpose of sale by a medical device manufacturer or importer is found to be 
nonconforming as a result of inspection under Article 32 or Article 33 of the Medical Device 
Act. 
52.  “Supplier” means an individual or organization that provides all or part of components, 
processes, or services. 
53.  “Clinical Evaluation” means the assessment and analysis of clinical data to verify the clinical 
safety and performance of a medical device when used as intended by the organization. 
54.  “Complaint” means any written, electronic, or oral communication alleging defects related to 
the identification, quality, durability, reliability, usability, safety, or performance of a medical 
device after it has left the organization’s control, or alleging defects in services that affect the 
performance of such devices. 
55.  “Sterile Barrier System” means the minimum packaging that prevents microbial ingress and 
ensures that the product is presented sterile at the point of use. 
56.  “Life Cycle” means all stages of the life of a medical device, from initial conception to final 
disposal and processing. 
57.  “Product” means the output of a process and includes each of the following items: 
(a)  Hardware; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
412 
 
(b)  Software; 
(c)  Processed materials; 
(d)  Services. 
58.  “Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP)” means a system in which the results of 
conformity recognition and related audits conducted by audit organizations (AO) jointly 
designated and operated by participating jurisdictions, including the United States and Japan, 
are mutually recognized by multiple countries. 
59.  “In-house Quality Control Test Specifications” means test criteria established by a 
manufacturer for internal management and maintenance, which include procedures and 
standards for conducting periodic tests and inspections during the manufacturing process to 
ensure that product quality remains at a consistent level. 
60.  “Remote Inspection” means an inspection conducted without a physical site visit, using 
information and communication technologies such as remote video conferencing, online 
systems, or other non-face-to-face methods. 
61.  “Manufacturer” means a company or corporation that manages and is responsible for the 
overall process of producing a product, including production planning, quality control, and 
regulatory compliance. 
62.  “Manufacturing Site” means the physical location where a product is actually produced, such 
as a factory or production facility. 
63.  “Manufacturer” means a person who performs all manufacturing processes of a digital medical 
device and bears statutory responsibility therefor, or a person who, under a contractual 
relationship, is outsourced by a legal manufacturer with the entire manufacturing of the 
product.  
64.  “Legal Manufacturer” means a person who, under a contractual relationship, entrusts the entire 
manufacturing process of a digital medical device falling under any of the following items to a 
manufacturer and bears statutory responsibility therefor.  
(a)  A digital medical device that has obtained, or intends to obtain, approval or certification 
from the Minister of Food and Drug Safety; 
(b)  A digital medical device that has submitted, or intends to submit, a notification to the 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety. 
65.  “Outsourcing of Manufacturing Processes” means entrusting certain processes to an external 
entity during the manufacturing of a product. 
66.  “Human-derived Ingredients” means substances or components obtained from the human 
body, including those extracted from blood, cells, or organs. 
67.  “Human-derived Tissue” means tissue directly collected from the human body, which is used 
as biological tissue itself or for research, transplantation, or regenerative therapy. 
68.  “Clinical Investigation” means a study or investigation conducted in humans to demonstrate 
the safety and effectiveness of a digital medical device. 
69.  “Clinical Performance Study” means a study or research that analyzes a specimen (as defined 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
413 
 
in subparagraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act on In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices; hereinafter 
the same shall apply) to predict clinical, physiological, or pathological conditions or to verify 
the results thereof, for the purpose of demonstrating the performance of a digital medical 
device. 
70.  “Digital Medical Device Software” means software that constitutes a part of a digital medical 
device or on its own is a digital medical device, which falls under any of the following items: 
(a)  Embedded digital medical device software: Software installed in a digital medical device 
or connected by wire or wireless to a digital medical device, which is used for the purpose 
of controlling and operating the digital medical device, or storing data generated from the 
digital medical device, processing signals and images, etc.; 
(b)  Standalone digital medical device software: An independent form of software that 
operates in an environment equivalent to a general-purpose computer, etc. without being 
connected to hardware such as electronic or mechanical devices, and on its own is a 
digital medical device; 
(c)  Software similar to those referred to in item (a) or (b), as designated by the Minister of 
Food and Drug Safety. 
71.  “Digital Healthcare Devices” means a device, machine, equipment, software, or similar 
products designated by the Minister of Food and Drug Safety, which does not fall under digital 
medical devices, but monitors, measures, collects, and analyzes biological signals for the 
purpose of supporting medical services or maintaining and improving health or records and 
analyzes lifestyle habits for the purpose of providing health management information such as 
diet and exercises; 
72.  “Artificial Intelligence (AI)” means a computer programmed to perform tasks that mimic 
human capabilities—such as language comprehension, object and sound recognition, learning, 
and problem-solving—using logic, decision trees, machine learning, or deep learning. 
73.  “AI/ML (Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning)” means the capability of an AI system to 
learn and improve through data for the purpose of achieving its intended medical objective. 
74.  “AI Control” means control measures that must be added to the existing software quality 
management system to ensure reliable quality management of AI/ML software systems. 
75.  “Legacy Software” means medical device software that has been legally marketed and remains 
commercially available, but for which objective evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that it 
was developed in accordance with the current version of IEC 62304. 
76.  “Software of Unknown Provenance (SOUP)” means software that has been previously 
developed and marketed independently of medical device software (including off-the-shelf 
software). 
77.  “Training” means a procedure that uses training data to establish or improve the parameters of 
an ML model based on ML training algorithms. 
78.  “Risk Analysis” means the systematic use of available information to identify hazards and to 
estimate the associated risks. 
79.  “Risk Estimation” means the process of assigning values to the probability of occurrence of 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
414 
 
harm and to the severity of that harm.  
80.  “Management Review” means an activity conducted by top management at planned intervals 
to evaluate the need for changes to, and the potential for improvement of, the quality 
management system, including the quality policy and quality objectives, in order to ensure its 
continuing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness. 
81.  “Requirement” means an expressed need or expectation, generally one that is implicit or 
obligatory.  
82.  “Software Life Cycle Process” means the processes performed within the software life cycle. 
83.  “Software Life Cycle Process Subgroup” means a subset of the set of software life cycle 
processes that constitute a specific software life cycle process group. 
84.  “Production Realization” means the combined sequence of processes and detailed processes 
required to achieve a product. 
85.  “Validation” means confirming, through the provision of objective evidence, that a specified 
intended use or product requirements have been satisfied. 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
415 
 
[Annex 2] 
Criteria for Conformity Determination Assessment (Related to Article 5) 
1.  Purpose 
The purpose of this GMP is to prescribe the quality management system requirements 
applicable to the design and development, production, installation, and servicing of digital 
medical devices by digital medical device manufacturers or digital medical device importers 
(hereinafter referred to as the “organization”). 
2.  Scope 
(a)  Where, due to the activities performed by the organization or the characteristics of the 
digital medical devices to which this GMP apply, any requirement under Chapter 6 
(Resource Management), Chapter 7 (Production Realization), or Chapter 8 (Measurement, 
Analysis, and Improvement) is not applicable, the organization may exclude such 
requirement from its quality management system. Provided, however, that the 
organization shall document the justification for each excluded requirement in accordance 
with Section 4.2.2. 
(b)  Digital medical device software shall additionally meet the criteria set forth in Annex 3. 
(c)  Where AI/ML functions are incorporated, the criteria under Annex 4 shall be additionally 
applied. 
 
3.  Definitions 
(a)  With respect to the requirements in this GMP that are limited to those “where applicable,” the 
organization shall be deemed applicable unless it otherwise provides reasonable justification. 
(b)  Where a requirement in this GMP is stated as “shall document,” it also includes the 
requirement to establish, implement, and maintain the corresponding content. 
(c)  In applying this GMP, the definitions of other terms shall be in accordance with Annex 1. 
4.  Quality Management System 
4.1  General Requirements 
4.1.1 Establishment and Documentation of the Quality Management System 
(a)  The organization shall document its quality management system for digital medical 
devices in accordance with this GMP and applicable statutory requirements, and shall 
maintain the effectiveness of the quality management system.  
(b)  The organization shall establish, implement, and maintain specific requirements, 
procedures, activities, or methods of operation that must be documented pursuant to this 
GMP and applicable statutory requirements.  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
416 
 
(c)  The organization shall define and document the roles required to perform in accordance 
with applicable statutory requirements. 
4.1.2 Implementation of the Quality Management System 
The organization shall implement the following: 
(a)  Define the processes necessary for the quality management system, considering the size 
of the organization and the roles it performs, and apply the defined processes throughout 
the organization; 
(b)  Apply a risk-based approach to the appropriate management of processes required for the 
quality management system; 
(c)  Determine the sequence, procedures for activity execution, and interactions of such 
processes. 
4.1.3 Operation and Control of the Quality Management System 
For the processes of the quality management system, the organization shall perform the 
following:  
(a)  Determine the criteria and methods necessary to ensure the effective operation and control 
of the processes; 
(b)  Ensure the availability of information and resources necessary to support the operation 
and control of the processes; 
(c)  Monitor and take necessary actions to achieve planned results and maintain the 
effectiveness of the processes; 
(d)  Monitor such processes and, where applicable, measure and analyze them; 
(e)  Maintain records necessary to demonstrate conformity to this GMP and compliance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 
4.1.4 Change Control of the Quality Management System 
The organization shall control quality management system processes in conformity with this 
GMP and applicable statutory requirements. Where such processes are to be changed, the 
organization shall perform the following: 
(a)  Evaluate whether the change to the process affects the quality management system; 
(b)  Evaluate whether the change to the process affects the medical devices produced under 
the quality management system; 
(c)  Control such changes in accordance with this GMP and applicable statutory requirements. 
4.1.5 Outsourced Process Control within the Quality Management System 
(a)  Where the organization outsources any process that affects product conformity 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
417 
 
requirements, it shall ensure that such processes are monitored and controlled.  
(b)  The organization shall retain responsibility for ensuring compliance with this GMP, 
customer requirements, and applicable statutory requirements for outsourced processes. 
(c)  Control of outsourced processes shall be proportionate to the associated risks and to the 
capability of the contracted supplier to meet the requirements under Section 7.4, and shall 
include a written quality agreement. 
4.1.6 Validation of Computer Software Used in the Quality Management System 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for the validation of computer software used 
in the quality management system.  
(b)  Such software shall be validated prior to initial use, and where applicable, shall also be 
validated following any changes to the software or its application. 
(c)  Specific approaches and activities related to software validation and revalidation shall be 
proportionate to the risks associated with the use of the software.  
(d)  Records of these activities shall be maintained. 
4.2 Documentation Requirements 
4.2.1 General Requirements 
Documentation of the quality management system shall include the following: 
(a)  Documented quality policy and quality objectives; 
(b)  A quality manual; 
(c)  Documented procedures and records required by this GMP; 
(d)  Documents, including records, determined by the organization to be necessary to ensure 
the effective planning, operation, and control of its processes; 
(e)  Any additional documentation required by applicable statutory requirements. 
4.2.2 Quality Manual 
(a)  The organization shall document a quality manual that includes the following: 
1)  The scope of the quality management system, including details of any exclusions or 
non-applications and their justification; 
2)  Documented procedures established for the quality management system and 
reference to such documents; 
3)  A description of the interactions between processes of the quality management 
system. 
(b)  The quality manual shall briefly specify the structure of the documents used in the quality 
management system. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
418 
 
4.2.3 Digital Medical Device File 
(a)  For each digital medical device model or item, the organization shall establish and 
maintain one or more files containing or referencing documents generated to demonstrate 
conformity with this GMP and compliance with applicable statutory requirements. 
(b)  The contents of the digital medical device file shall include, but not be limited to, the 
following:  
1)  A general description of the digital medical device, including its intended 
use/purpose and all applicable instructions for use, as well as labeling requirements; 
2)  Product specifications; 
3)  Specifications and procedures for manufacturing, packaging, storage, handling, and 
distribution; 
4)  Measurement and monitoring procedures; 
5)  Installation requirements, where applicable; 
6)  Servicing procedures, where applicable.  
4.2.4 Control of Documents 
(a)  Documents required by the quality management system shall be controlled. Records are a 
special type of document and shall be controlled in accordance with requirements in 
Section 4.2.5.  
(b)  Procedures necessary to control the following shall be documented: 
1)  Review and approval of documents for adequacy prior to issuance; 
2)  Review, update, and re-approval of documents as necessary; 
3)  Ensure that changes to documents and the current revision status are identified; 
4)  Ensure that applicable versions of documents are available at points of use;  
5)  Ensure that documents remain legible and readily identifiable;  
6)  Ensure that documents of external origin determined by the organization to be 
necessary for the planning and operation of the quality management system are 
identified and their distribution controlled; 
7)  Prevent deterioration or loss of documents; 
8)  Prevent the unintended use of obsolete documents and applying appropriate 
identification if they are retained for any purpose. 
(c)  The organization shall ensure that document changes are reviewed and approved by the 
original approving authority or another designated authority with access to background 
information on which the organization’s decisions are based. 
(d)  The organization shall retain at least one copy of obsolete controlled documents for a 
period corresponding to the device’s life cycle, which shall be no less than the retention 
period required for records. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
419 
 
4.2.5 Control of Records 
(a)  Records shall be established and maintained to demonstrate the effective operation of the 
quality management system and conformity to requirements.  
(b)  The organization shall document procedures defining the controls needed for the 
identification, storage, security and integrity, retrieval, retention period, and disposition of 
records.  
(c)  The organization shall establish and implement methods to protect personal health 
information contained in records in accordance with applicable statutory requirements. 
(d)  All records shall be easily legible, readily identifiable, and retrievable. Any changes to 
records shall remain identifiable. 
(e)  The organization shall retain records for a period corresponding to the device’s life cycle. 
This period shall be at least five years from the date of manufacture and at least two years 
after release to the market. 
5.  Management Responsibility 
5.1  Management Commitment 
Top management shall demonstrate its commitment to the development and implementation of 
the quality management system and to maintaining its effectiveness through the following:  
(a)  Communicate within the organization the importance of meeting customer requirements 
and applicable statutory requirements; 
(b)  Establish the quality policy; 
(c)  Ensure that quality objectives are established; 
(d)  Conduct management reviews; 
(e)  Ensure the availability of resources. 
5.2  Customer Focus 
Top management shall ensure that customer requirements and applicable statutory 
requirements relating to the quality management system are determined and fulfilled. 
5.3  Quality Policy 
Top management shall ensure that the quality policy of the quality management system: 
(a)  Is appropriate to the purpose of the organization; 
(b)  Includes a commitment to comply with requirements and to maintain the effectiveness of 
the quality management system; 
(c)  Provides a framework for establishing and reviewing quality objectives; 
(d)  Is communicated and understood within the organization; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
420 
 
(e)  Is reviewed for continuing suitability. 
5.4  Planning 
5.4.1 Quality Objectives 
(a)  Top management shall ensure that the quality objectives of the quality management 
system include the necessary elements to meet applicable statutory requirements and 
product requirements, and that they are established at relevant functions and levels within 
the organization.  
(b)  The quality objectives of the quality management system shall be measurable and 
consistent with the quality policy. 
5.4.2 Planning of the Quality Management System 
Top management shall ensure the following: 
(a)  The planning of the quality management system is carried out not only to achieve the 
quality objectives but also to meet the requirements of Section 4.1;  
(b)  The integrity of the quality management system is maintained when changes to the 
quality management system are planned and implemented.  
5.5  Responsibility, Authority, and Communication 
5.5.1 Responsibility and Authority 
(a)  Top management shall ensure that responsibilities and authorities within the organization 
are defined, documented, and communicated. 
(b)  Top management shall document the interrelationships of all personnel who manage, 
perform, and verify work affecting quality, and shall ensure the authority and 
independence necessary to perform such work. 
5.5.2 Quality Manager 
Top management shall appoint a person within the organization who, irrespective of other 
responsibilities, has the authority and responsibility to perform the following: 
(a)  Ensure that the processes needed for the quality management system are documented; 
(b)  Report to top management on the performance and effectiveness of the quality 
management system and on the need for improvement; 
(c)  Ensure the promotion of awareness of applicable statutory requirements and quality 
management system requirements throughout the organization. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
421 
 
5.5.3 Internal Communication 
Top management shall ensure that appropriate communication processes regarding the quality 
management system are established within the organization and that communication regarding 
the effectiveness of the quality management system is carried out. 
5.6  Management Review 
5.6.1 General Requirements 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for management review.  
(b)  Top management shall review the quality management system at intervals planned in 
documents to ensure the continuing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of the quality 
control system.  
(c)  Management reviews shall evaluate the need for changes to the quality management 
system, including the quality policy and quality objectives, and shall identify 
opportunities for improvement. 
(d)  Records of management reviews shall be maintained. 
5.6.2 Review Inputs 
The inputs to management review shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
(a)  Feedback; 
(b)  Handling of complaints 
(c)  Reports to regulatory authorities; 
(d)  Audits; 
(e)  Monitoring and measurement of processes; 
(f)  Monitoring and measurement of product; 
(g)  Corrective actions; 
(h)  Preventive actions; 
(i)  Follow-up actions from previous management reviews; 
(j)  Changes that could affect the quality management system; 
(k)  Recommendations for improvement; 
(l)  New or revised applicable statutory requirements. 
5.6.3 Review Outputs 
The outputs of management review shall be recorded and shall include decisions and actions 
related to the reviewed inputs and the following: 
(a)  Improvements needed to maintain the suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of the 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
422 
 
quality management system and its processes; 
(b)  Improvement of product related to customer requirements; 
(c)  Changes needed to meet new or revised applicable statutory requirements; 
(d)  Resource needs. 
6.  Resource Management 
6.1  Provision of Resources 
The organization shall determine and provide the resources needed for: 
(a)  Implementing the quality management system and maintaining its effectiveness; 
(b)  Meeting applicable statutory requirements and customer requirements. 
6.2  Human Resources 
(a)  Personnel performing work affecting product quality shall be competent on the basis of 
appropriate education, training, skills, and experience.  
(b)  The organization shall establish the competencies required of personnel, provide the 
necessary training, and establish and document processes to ensure personnel awareness. 
(c)  The organization shall perform the following:  
1)  Determine the competencies needed for all personnel who manage, perform, and 
verify work affecting product quality;  
2)  Provide training or take other actions to achieve or maintain the necessary 
competencies;  
3)  Evaluate the effectiveness of the actions taken; 
4)  Ensure that personnel are aware of the relevance and importance of their activities 
and how they contribute to the achievement of quality objectives;  
5)  Maintain appropriate records of education, training, skills, and experience. 
6.3  Infrastructure 
(a)  The organization shall document the infrastructure requirements necessary to ensure 
conformity to product requirements, prevent product mix-ups, and ensure orderly 
handling. Where applicable, infrastructure includes: 
1)  Buildings, workspace, and associated facilities; 
2)  Process equipment (hardware and software); 
3)  Supporting services such as transport, communication, or information systems. 
(b)  Where maintenance activities of infrastructure, or lack thereof, may affect product quality, 
the organization shall document the maintenance requirements, including maintenance 
intervals. Where applicable, these requirements shall apply to equipment used for 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
423 
 
manufacturing, work environment control, and monitoring and measurement. 
(c)  Records of such maintenance activities shall be maintained. 
6.4  Work Environment and Contamination Control 
6.4.1 Work Environment 
(a)  The organization shall document the requirements for the work environment necessary to 
ensure conformity to product requirements. 
(b)  Where work environment conditions may have an adverse effect on product quality, the 
organization shall document the requirements for the work environment and procedures 
for monitoring and controlling such conditions. 
(c)  The organization shall perform the following requirements: 
1)  Where personnel may affect the safety or performance of the medical device through 
contact with the product or the work environment, define and document 
requirements for personnel health, cleanliness, and clothing; 
2)  Ensure that all personnel who temporarily work under special environmental 
conditions are competent or are supervised by competent personnel. 
6.4.2 Contamination Control 
(a)  Where applicable, the organization shall plan and document methods for controlling 
products that are contaminated or potentially contaminated, in order to prevent 
contamination of the work environment, personnel, or medical devices.  
(b)  For sterilized medical devices, the organization shall document requirements for 
contamination control related to microorganisms or particulates and shall maintain the 
required cleanliness during assembly or packaging processes. 
7.  Production Realization 
7.1  Planning of Production Realization 
(a)  The organization shall plan and develop the processes needed for production realization. 
Planning of production realization shall be consistent with the other process requirements 
of the quality management system. 
(b)  The organization shall document one or more processes for risk management during 
production realization, and records of risk management activities shall be maintained.  
(c)  Where applicable, the organization shall determine the following in planning production 
realization:  
1)  Quality objectives and requirements for the product; 
2)  The need to establish and document processes, and to provide specific resources for 
the product, including infrastructure and work environment; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
424 
 
3)  Specific verification, validation, monitoring, measurement, testing and inspection, 
handling, storage, distribution, and traceability activities required for the product, 
along with the criteria for product acceptance; 
4)  Records necessary to demonstrate that production realization processes and their 
outputs meet requirements. 
(d)  The outputs of such planning shall be documented in a form appropriate to the 
organization’s method of operation. 
7.2  Customer-Related Processes 
7.2.1 Determination of Requirements Related to the Product 
The organization shall determine the following:  
1)  Requirements specified by the customer, including those related to delivery and post-
delivery activities; 
2)  Requirements not stated by the customer but necessary for known specified or 
intended use;  
3)  Applicable statutory requirements related to the product; 
4)  User training necessary to ensure stated performance and safe use of the medical 
device; 
5)  Any additional requirements determined by the organization. 
7.2.2 Review of Requirements Related to the Product 
(a)  The organization shall review the requirements related to the product. This review shall 
be conducted prior to the organization’s commitment to supply the product to the 
customer.  
1)  The requirements for the product are defined and documented; 
2)  Any contract or order requirements differing from those previously expressed are 
resolved; 
3)  Applicable statutory requirements are met; 
4)  User training determined under Section 7.2.1 shall be feasible or planned to be 
feasible. 
5)  The organization has the capability to meet the defined requirements. 
(b)  Records of the results of the review and any actions arising from the review shall be 
maintained. 
(c)  Where the customer does not provide documented requirements, the organization shall 
confirm the customer requirements prior to acceptance.  
(d)  When product requirements are changed, the organization shall amend the relevant 
documents and ensure that relevant personnel are made aware of the changed 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
425 
 
requirements.  
7.2.3 Communication 
(a)  The organization shall plan and document the methods for communicating with customers 
regarding: 
1)  Product information; 
2)  Handling inquiries, including amendments, contracts, or orders; 
3)  Customer feedback, including complaints; 
4)  Advisory notices. 
(b)  The organization shall communicate with regulatory authorities in accordance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 
7.3. Design and Development 
7.3.1 General  
The organization shall document procedures for design and development.  
7.3.2 Design and Development Planning 
(a)  The organization shall plan and control the design and development of the product. Where 
applicable, the design and development plan shall be maintained and updated as design 
and development progress. 
(b)  The organization shall document the following in the course of design and development 
planning:  
1)  The stages of design and development; 
2)  The reviews required at each stage of design and development;  
3)  The verification, validation, and design transfer activities appropriate to each stage 
of design and development; 
4)  The responsibilities and authorities for design and development; 
5)  The methods to ensure traceability between design and development inputs and 
outputs; 
6)  The necessary resources, including personnel competence. 
7.3.3 Design and Development Inputs 
(a)  The organization shall determine and maintain records of inputs relating to product 
requirements. These inputs shall include:  
1)  Functional, performance, usability, and safety requirements necessary for the 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
426 
 
intended use; 
2)  Applicable statutory requirements and standards; 
3)  Applicable risk management outputs; 
4)  Information derived from previous similar designs, where applicable; 
5)  Other requirements essential for the design and development of the product and 
process. 
(b)  Such inputs shall be reviewed and approved for adequacy.  
(c)  Product requirements shall be clear, unambiguous, verifiable or validatable, and shall not 
conflict with other requirements. 
7.3.4 Design and Development Outputs 
(a)  The design and development outputs shall: 
1)  Meet the design and development input requirements; 
2)  Provide appropriate information for purchasing, production, and service provision; 
3)  Include or reference the criteria for product acceptance;  
4)  Specify the characteristics of the product that are essential for safe and proper use. 
(b)  The outputs of the design and development process shall be provided in a form that 
enables verification against the design and development inputs and shall be approved 
prior to release.  
(c)  Records of the design and development outputs shall be maintained. 
7.3.5 Design and Development Review 
(a)  Systematic reviews of the design and development shall be conducted at appropriate 
stages in accordance with planned and documented methods for the purpose of:  
1)  Evaluating the ability of the design and development results to meet the 
requirements; 
2)  Identifying and proposing any necessary actions. 
(b)  Personnel participating in such reviews shall include not only the persons responsible for 
the design and development stage under review, but also other relevant experts. 
(c)  Records of the results of the reviews and any necessary actions shall be maintained and 
shall include identification of the design under review, the personnel participating in the 
review, and the dates of the review.  
7.3.6 Design and Development Verification  
(a)  Design and development verification shall be performed in accordance with planned and 
documented methods to ensure that the design and development outputs meet the input 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
427 
 
requirements.  
(b)  The organization shall document the verification plan, including the verification methods, 
acceptance criteria, and, where applicable, statistical techniques with justification for 
sample size. 
(c)  If the intended use requires the medical device to be connected to or interfaced with 
another medical device, the verification shall include confirmation that the design outputs 
meet the design inputs when so connected or interfaced. 
(d)  Records of the verification results, conclusions, and any necessary actions shall be 
maintained.  
7.3.7 Design and Development Validation 
(a)  Design and development validation shall be performed, in accordance with planned and 
documented methods, to ensure that the resulting product meets the requirements for the 
intended use or specified application.  
(b)  The organization shall document the validation plan, including the validation methods, 
acceptance criteria, and, where applicable, justification for sample size. 
(c)  Design validation shall be performed on core product. Core product includes initial 
production units, batches, or their equivalents. The rationale for the selection of the 
product used for validation shall be recorded. 
(d)  As part of design and development validation, the organization shall perform clinical 
evaluations in accordance with applicable statutory requirements. 
(e)  Medical devices used for clinical evaluation shall not be considered to have been shipped 
for customer use. 
(f)  If the intended use requires the medical device to be connected to or interfaced with 
another medical device, the validation shall include confirmation that the product 
requirements for the specified application or intended use are met when so connected or 
interfaced.  
(g)  Validation shall be completed prior to the product’s release for customer use.  
(h)  Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
shall be maintained. 
7.3.8 Design and Development Transfer 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for the transfer of design and development 
outputs to manufacturing. These procedures shall ensure that the design and development 
outputs have been verified as suitable for manufacturing before becoming the final 
production specifications and that manufacturing capability can meet product 
requirements.  
(b)  Records of the results and conclusions of the transfer shall be maintained. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
428 
 
7.3.9 Control of Design and Development Changes 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for controlling design and development 
changes. The organization shall determine the significance of changes to the function, 
performance, usability, safety, applicable statutory requirements, and intended use of the 
medical device. 
(b)  Design and development changes shall be identified. Prior to implementation, the changes 
shall be: 
1)  Reviewed;  
2)  Verified;  
3)  Validated, where applicable; 
4)  Approved. 
(c)  The review of design and development changes shall include evaluation of the effects of 
the changes on constituent parts, products in manufacturing or already delivered, risk 
management inputs or outputs, and the production realization processes.  
(d)  Records of the changes, the review of the changes, and any necessary actions shall be 
maintained. 
7.3.10 Design and Development File 
(a)  The organization shall maintain a design and development file for each medical device 
model or item. 
(b)  This file shall contain or reference the records generated to demonstrate conformity with 
the design and development requirements and the records of design and development 
changes. 
7.4. Purchasing 
7.4.1 Purchasing Process 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures to ensure that purchased product conforms to 
specified requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall establish criteria for the evaluation and selection of suppliers. The 
criteria shall be based on: 
1)  The supplier’s ability to provide product that meets the organization’s requirements; 
2)  The supplier’s performance; 
3)  The effect of the purchased product on the quality of the medical device; 
4)  Proportionality to risks associated with the medical device. 
(c)  The organization shall plan monitoring and re-evaluation of suppliers. The performance 
of suppliers in meeting purchased product requirements shall be monitored. The results of 
monitoring shall be provided as input to the supplier re-evaluation process.  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
429 
 
(d)  Non-fulfillment of purchasing requirements shall be addressed with the supplier in 
proportion to the risks associated with the purchased product and compliance with 
applicable statutory requirements. 
(e)  Records of the results of evaluation, selection, monitoring, and re-evaluation of suppliers 
and of any necessary actions arising from these activities shall be maintained. 
7.4.2 Purchasing Information 
(a)  Purchasing information shall describe or reference the product to be purchased, including, 
where appropriate:  
1)  Product specifications; 
2)  Requirements for product approval, procedures, processes, and equipment; 
3)  Requirements for the qualification of supplier personnel; 
4)  Quality management system requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall ensure the adequacy of specified purchasing requirements prior to 
communication with the supplier. 
(c)  Purchasing information shall include, where appropriate, a written agreement that the 
supplier notify the organization of any changes to the product prior to implementation if 
such changes may affect the ability of the product to meet specified purchasing 
requirements. 
(d)  The organization shall maintain the relevant purchasing information as documents and 
records to the extent that traceability is required in accordance with 7.5.9. 
7.4.3 Verification of Purchased Product 
(a)  The organization shall establish and implement the inspection or other activities necessary 
to ensure that purchased product meets specified requirements. The extent of verification 
activities shall be based on the results of supplier evaluation and shall be proportional to 
the risks associated with the purchased product.  
(b)  When the organization becomes aware of any changes to the purchased product, it shall 
determine whether such changes affect the production realization processes or the medical 
device. 
(c)  If the organization or its customer intends to verify the purchased product at the supplier’s 
premises, the organization shall specify in the purchasing information the intended 
verification arrangements and the method of product release.  
(d)  Records of verification shall be maintained. 
7.5  Production and Service Provision 
7.5.1 Control of Production and Service Provision 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
430 
 
(a)  Production and service provision shall be planned, carried out, monitored, and controlled 
to ensure that product conforms to specifications. Where appropriate, production control 
shall include, but not be limited to: 
1)  Documentation of procedures and methods for production control; 
2)  Qualification of infrastructure; 
3)  Implementation of monitoring and measurement of process parameters and product 
characteristics; 
4)  Availability and use of monitoring and measuring equipment; 
5)  Implementation of activities specified for labeling and packaging operations; 
6)  Implementation of product release, delivery, and post-delivery activities. 
(b)  The organization shall provide traceability to the extent required in accordance with 7.5.9 
and shall establish and maintain records by medical device or by medical device batch 
that enable identification of the quantity produced and approved for distribution. These 
records shall be verified and approved. 
7.5.2 Cleanliness of Product 
The organization shall document requirements for cleanliness of product or contamination 
control of product in the following cases. Provided, however, that where the product is cleaned 
in accordance with 1) or 2), the requirements of 6.4.1 do not apply prior to the cleaning 
process. 
(a)  Product that is cleaned by the organization prior to sterilization or use; 
(b)  Product supplied non-sterile that requires a cleaning process prior to sterilization or use; 
(c)  Product that cannot be cleaned prior to sterilization or use and for which cleanliness is of 
significant importance for use; 
(d)  Product supplied non-sterile for which cleanliness is of significant importance for use; 
(e)  Removal of process agents used during manufacturing from the product. 
7.5.3 Installation Activities 
(a)  Where applicable, the organization shall document the acceptance criteria for installation 
of the medical device and for installation verification. 
(b)  Where installation by parties other than the organization or the supplier is permitted by 
the customer, the organization shall provide documented requirements for installation of 
the medical device and for installation verification.  
(c)  Records of installation of the medical device and of installation verification performed by 
the organization or the supplier shall be maintained.  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
431 
 
7.5.4 Servicing Activities 
(a)  Where servicing of the medical device is a specified requirement, the organization shall 
document servicing procedures, reference materials, and reference measurements, where 
necessary, for performing servicing activities and for verifying that specified requirements 
are met.  
(b)  The organization shall analyze records of servicing activities performed by the 
organization or the supplier for the purpose of: 
1)  Determining whether the information should be handled as a complaint; 
2)  Providing, where applicable, input to the improvement processes. 
(c)  Records of servicing activities performed by the organization or the supplier shall be 
maintained.  
7.5.5 Specific Requirements for Sterile Medical Devices 
The organization shall maintain records of the parameters of the sterilization process used for 
each sterilization batch. Sterilization records shall be traceable to each production batch of the 
medical device. 
7.5.6 Validation of Processes for Production and Service Provision 
(a)  The organization shall validate any processes for production and service provision where 
the resulting output cannot be verified by subsequent monitoring or measurement. 
Validation shall include all processes where deficiencies become apparent only after the 
product is used or the service is delivered.  
(b)  Validation shall demonstrate the ability of the processes to achieve the planned results 
consistently.  
(c)  The organization shall document procedures for process validation that include:  
1)  Defined criteria for review and approval of the processes; 
2)  Qualification of equipment and personnel; 
3)  Use of specific methods, procedures, and acceptance criteria; 
4)  Statistical techniques, where applicable, including justification for sample size; 
5)  Requirements for records; 
6)  Revalidation, including the criteria for revalidation; 
7)  Approval of changes to the process. 
(d)  The organization shall document procedures for validation of the application of computer 
software used in production and service provision. Such software applications shall be 
validated prior to initial use and, where appropriate, validated after changes or software 
applications have been made. The specific approach and activities related to software 
validation and revalidation shall be proportionate to the risks associated with the use of 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
432 
 
the software, including the impact on product specifications and product performance.  
(e)  Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
resulting from the validation shall be maintained. 
7.5.7 Specific Requirements for Validation of Sterilization and Sterile Packaging Processes 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for validation of the sterilization processes 
and the sterile barrier systems. 
(b)  The sterilization processes and the sterile barrier systems shall be validated prior to initial 
use and, where applicable, prior to changes to the product or the process. 
(c)  Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
resulting from the validation shall be maintained. 
7.5.8 Identification 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for product identification and shall identify 
the product by suitable means throughout production realization. 
(b)  The organization shall identify the status of product with respect to monitoring and 
measurement requirements throughout production realization. The organization shall 
maintain identification of the status of product to ensure that only product that has passed 
the required tests and inspections, or that has been released under an approved 
concession, is dispatched, used, or installed during all phases of production, storage, 
installation, and servicing. 
(c)  Where required by applicable statutory requirements, the organization shall document a 
system for assigning a unique device identification (UDI) to the medical device. 
(d)  The organization shall document procedures to ensure that medical devices returned to the 
organization are identified and distinguished from conforming product. 
7.5.9 Traceability 
7.5.9.1 General Requirements 
The organization shall document procedures for traceability. These procedures shall define the 
scope of traceability and the records to be maintained in accordance with applicable statutory 
requirements. 
7.5.9.2 Specific Requirements for Medical Devices Subject to Traceability 
(a)  Where components, materials, or working environment conditions used could cause the 
medical device not to meet specified safety and performance requirements, records 
required for traceability shall include records of the components, materials, and working 
environment conditions used. 
(b)  The organization shall require distributors or retailers to maintain records of sales of the 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
433 
 
medical device and to make such records available for investigation to ensure product 
traceability.  
(c)  The organization shall maintain records of the name and address of the consignee for 
shipped product.  
7.5.10 Customer Property 
Where customer property provided for use or incorporation into the product is under the 
manufacturer’s control or is being used by the manufacturer, the organization shall identify, 
verify, protect, and safeguard such property. If customer property is lost, damaged, or found to 
be unsuitable for use, this shall be reported to the customer and records shall be maintained. 
 
7.5.11 Preservation of Product 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures to preserve product conformity to 
requirements during processing, storage, handling, and distribution. 
(b)  Preservation shall also apply to components of the medical device. 
(c)  When exposed to expected conditions and hazards during processing, storage, handling, 
and distribution, the organization shall protect the product from alteration, contamination, 
or damage by the following means: 
1)  Designing and constructing appropriate packaging and transportation containers; 
2)  Documenting requirements for any special conditions needed where packaging alone 
does not provide preservation. 
(d)  Where special conditions are necessary, such conditions shall be controlled and recorded.  
7.6.  Control of Monitoring and Measuring Equipment 
(a)  The organization shall determine the monitoring and measurement activities to be 
performed, and the monitoring and measuring equipment required, to demonstrate that the 
product meets specified requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall document procedures to ensure that monitoring and measurement 
activities are carried out in a manner consistent with the monitoring and measurement 
requirements. 
(c)  Where necessary to ensure valid results, measuring equipment shall: 
1)  Be calibrated or verified, or both, at specified intervals or prior to use, against 
measurement standards traceable to international or national measurement standards; 
Where no such standards exist, the basis used for calibration or verification shall be 
recorded; 
2)  Be adjusted or re-adjusted as necessary. Such adjustments or re-adjustments shall be 
recorded. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
434 
 
3)  Be identified to enable the calibration status to be determined;  
4)  Be safeguarded from adjustments that would invalidate the measurement result;  
5)  Be protected from damage and deterioration during handling, maintenance, and 
storage. 
(d)  The organization shall calibrate or verify the equipment in accordance with documented 
procedures.  
(e)  When equipment is found not to conform to requirements, the organization shall assess 
the validity of previous measurement results. The organization shall take appropriate 
action regarding the equipment and any product affected. Records of the results of 
calibration and verification shall be maintained. 
(f)  When computer software is used in monitoring or measuring the requirements specified, 
the organization shall document procedures for validation of the application of computer 
software. The software shall be validated prior to initial use and, where appropriate, 
revalidated after changes to the software or its application. The specific approach and 
activities related to software validation and revalidation shall be proportionate to the risks 
associated with the use of the software, including the impact on product specifications and 
product performance.  
(g)  Records of the results of validation, the conclusions reached, and any necessary actions 
resulting from the validation shall be maintained. 
8.  Measurement, Analysis and Improvement 
8.1  General Requirements 
(a)  The organization shall plan and implement the monitoring, measurement, analysis, and 
improvement processes needed: 
1)  To demonstrate conformity of the product; 
2)  To ensure conformity of the quality management system; 
3)  To maintain the effectiveness of the quality management system. 
(b)  This shall include determination of the methods, including statistical techniques, and the 
extent of their use.  
8.2  Monitoring and Measurement 
8.2.1 Feedback 
(a)  As one of the measurements of the effectiveness of the quality management system, the 
organization shall collect and monitor information relating to whether customer 
requirements have been met.  
(b)  The methods for obtaining and using this information shall be documented. 
(c)  The organization shall document procedures for the feedback process. The feedback 
process shall include provisions for gathering data from production as well as post-

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
435 
 
production activities.  
(d)  Information gathered in the feedback process shall be used as potential input to risk 
management in order to monitor and maintain the product requirements and the 
production realization or improvement processes. 
(e)  Where applicable statutory requirements require the organization to collect information 
from post-production activities, review of that information shall be part of the feedback 
process. 
8.2.2 Handling of Complaints 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for timely handling of complaints in 
accordance with applicable statutory requirements. These procedures shall include, at a 
minimum, the following requirements and responsibilities: 
1)  Receiving and recording information; 
2)  Evaluating information to determine whether feedback constitutes a complaint; 
3)  Investigating complaints; 
4)  Determining whether the information must be reported to the appropriate regulatory 
authorities;  
5)  Handling complaint-related product; 
6)  Determining the need for correction or corrective action. 
(b)  If any complaint is not investigated, the justification for not conducting the investigation 
shall be documented. All results of corrections and corrective actions arising from the 
complaint handling process shall be documented. 
(c)  Where an investigation determines that activities external to the organization caused the 
complaint, relevant information shall be exchanged between the organization and the 
external parties.  
(d)  Records of complaint handling shall be maintained. 
8.2.3 Reporting to Regulatory Authorities 
(a)  Where complaints are subject to adverse event reporting or advisory notice reporting in 
accordance with applicable statutory requirements, the organization shall document 
procedures for reporting such complaints to the regulatory authorities.  
(b)  Records of reports submitted to regulatory authorities shall be maintained. 
8.2.4 Internal Audit 
(a)  The organization shall conduct internal audits at planned intervals to determine whether 
the quality management system: 
1)  Conforms to the planned and documented arrangements, the requirements of this 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
436 
 
GMP, the quality management system requirements established by the organization, 
and the applicable statutory requirements; 
2)  Is effectively implemented and maintained. 
(b) The organization shall document procedures that define the responsibilities and 
requirements for planning and conducting audits, and for recording and reporting audit 
results. 
(c)  The audit program shall be planned, taking into consideration the status and importance of 
the processes and areas to be audited, as well as the results of previous audits. The audit 
criteria, scope, frequency, and methods shall be defined and recorded. Auditors shall be 
selected and audits conducted to ensure objectivity and impartiality of the audit process. 
Auditors shall not audit their own work. Records of the audit and audit results, including 
the processes and areas audited and the conclusions reached, shall be maintained. 
(d)  Management responsible for the areas being audited shall ensure that necessary 
corrections and corrective actions are taken without undue delay to eliminate detected 
nonconformities and their causes. Follow-up activities shall include the verification of the 
actions taken and the reporting of the results of verification.  
8.2.5 Monitoring and Measurement of Processes 
The organization shall apply suitable methods for monitoring and, where applicable, 
measurement of the quality management system processes. These methods shall demonstrate 
the ability of the processes to achieve the planned results. When the planned results are not 
achieved, appropriate correction and corrective action shall be taken to ensure conformity of 
the product.  
8.2.6 Monitoring and Measurement of Product 
(a)  The organization shall monitor and measure the characteristics of the product to verify 
that product requirements have been met. This shall be carried out at appropriate stages of 
the production realization process in accordance with the planned and documented 
arrangements and documented procedures. 
(b)  Records demonstrating conformity with the acceptance criteria shall be maintained. The 
identity of the person authorizing product release shall be recorded. Where applicable, the 
test equipment used for measurement activities shall be identified and recorded. 
(c)  Product shall not be released, nor shall service be provided, until the planned and 
documented activities have been satisfactorily completed. 
(d)  For medical devices subject to traceability, the organization shall identify and record the 
identity of personnel performing all inspections or tests. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
437 
 
8.3  Control of Nonconforming Product 
8.3.1 General 
(a)  The organization shall ensure that nonconforming product is identified and controlled to 
prevent its unintended use or delivery. The organization shall document procedures that 
define the controls and related responsibilities and authorities for dealing with 
nonconforming product, including identification, documentation, segregation, evaluation, 
and disposition. 
(b)  Evaluation of nonconformities shall include investigation into any external party 
responsible for the nonconformity and determination of whether notification is required. 
(c)  Records of the nonconformity, including the evaluation, investigation, the basis for the 
decisions made, and all actions taken in response, shall be maintained. 
8.3.2 Actions in Response to Nonconforming Product Detected Prior to Delivery 
(a)  The organization shall deal with nonconforming product in one or more of the following 
ways:  
1)  Taking action to eliminate the detected nonconformity; 
2)  Taking action to preclude its original intended use or application; 
3)  Authorizing its use, release, or acceptance under concession. 
(b)  The organization shall ensure that concessions are granted only when justified, approved, 
and compliant with applicable statutory requirements. Records shall be maintained to 
identify acceptance under concession and the person authorizing the concession. 
8.3.3 Actions in Response to Nonconforming Product Detected After Delivery 
(a)  When nonconforming product is detected after delivery or use, the organization shall take 
appropriate action regarding the effects or potential effects of the nonconformity. Records 
of the actions taken shall be maintained. 
(b)  The organization shall document procedures for issuing advisory notices in accordance 
with applicable statutory requirements. These procedures shall be capable of being 
implemented at any time. Records of the actions related to advisory notices shall be 
maintained. 
8.3.4 Rework 
(a)  The organization shall perform rework in accordance with documented procedures that 
consider the potential adverse effects of the rework on the product. These procedures shall 
be subject to the same review and approval as the original procedures.  
(b)  After completion of the rework, the product shall be verified to ensure that it meets the 
applicable acceptance criteria and statutory requirements.  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
438 
 
(c)  Records of the rework shall be maintained. 
8.4  Analysis of Data 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures to determine, collect, and analyze 
appropriate data to demonstrate the suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of the quality 
management system. These procedures shall include the determination of appropriate 
methods, including statistical techniques and the extent of their application. 
(b)  Analysis of data shall include data generated from the results of monitoring and 
measurement and from other relevant sources, and shall include, at a minimum, the 
following inputs: 
1)  Feedback;  
2)  Conformity to product requirements;  
3)  Process and product characteristics and trends, including opportunities for 
improvement; 
4)  Suppliers; 
5)  Audits; 
6)  Service reports, where applicable. 
(c)  Where analysis of data shows that the quality management system is not suitable, 
adequate, or effective, the organization shall use this analysis as input for improvement as 
required in 8.5.  
(d)  Records of the results of data analysis shall be maintained.  
8.5  Improvement 
8.5.1 General Requirements 
The organization shall identify and implement any changes necessary to ensure and maintain 
the ongoing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of the quality management system, as well 
as the safety and performance of medical devices, through the use of the quality policy, quality 
objectives, audit results, post-marketing surveillance, data analysis, corrective and preventive 
actions, and management review.  
8.5.2 Corrective Action 
(a)  The organization shall take action to eliminate the causes of nonconformities in order to 
prevent their recurrence. 
(b)  Corrective actions required shall be taken without undue delay. Corrective actions shall be 
proportionate to the effects of the nonconformities encountered. 
(c)  Documented procedures shall define requirements for:  
1)  Reviewing nonconformities (including customer complaints); 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
439 
 
2)  Determining the causes of nonconformities; 
3)  Evaluating the need for action to ensure that nonconformities do not recur; 
4)  Planning and documenting the required actions and implementing them, including 
document changes where applicable;  
5)  Verifying that corrective actions do not adversely affect the safety and performance 
of the medical device or compliance with applicable statutory requirements;  
6)  Reviewing the effectiveness of the corrective actions taken. 
(d)  Records of all investigation results and actions taken shall be maintained.  
8.5.3 Preventive Action 
(a)  The organization shall determine preventive actions to eliminate the causes of potential 
nonconformities in order to prevent their occurrence. Preventive actions shall be 
proportionate to the potential impacts of such issues.  
(b)  Documented procedures shall define requirements for:  
1)  Determining potential nonconformities and their causes; 
2)  Evaluating the need for action to prevent the occurrence of nonconformities; 
3)  Planning and documenting the required actions and determining and implementing 
such actions, including document changes where applicable; 
4)  Verifying that preventive actions do not adversely affect the safety and performance 
of the medical device or compliance with applicable statutory requirements;  
5)  Reviewing the effectiveness of preventive actions taken, where applicable. 
(c)  Records of the results of all investigations and actions taken shall be maintained.  
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
440 
 
[Annex 3] 
Criteria for Assessment of Digital Medical Device Software  
(Related to Article 5) 
1.  Software Development Process 
1.1  Planning 
1.1.1 Planning for Design and Development of Digital Medical Device Software 
(a)  The organization shall establish a design and development plan to conduct design and 
development process activities appropriate to the scope, scale, and software safety class of 
the software system of the digital medical device to be developed. This plan shall define 
or reference all development life cycle models and shall be maintained and updated as 
design and development progress. 
(b)  The organization shall document the following in the course of design and development 
planning:  
1)  The processes used for design and development, including standards, methods, and 
tools; 
2)  The responsibilities and authorities for design and development; 
3)  Outputs of activities and tasks (including documentation); 
4)  Traceability among customer requirements, software system requirements, software 
item requirements, tests, and the risk control measures implemented in the digital 
medical device; 
5)  Software 
configuration 
management 
and 
change 
management, 
including 
configuration items such as software of unknown provenance (SOUP) and 
development support software; 
6)  Methods for resolving issues identified in the outputs and activities of each life cycle 
phase; 
7)  Methods to ensure traceability between design and development inputs and outputs; 
8)  The necessary resources, including personnel competence. 
1.1.2 Verification Planning for Digital Medical Device Software 
(a)  The organization shall include or reference the following verification information in the 
digital medical device software development plan: 
1)  Outputs required for verification; 
2) 
Verification activities required for each life cycle activity; 
3)  Milestones indicating which outputs are to be verified; 
4)  Acceptance criteria for verification of outputs. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
441 
 
(b)  The organization shall include or reference a plan for integrating software items of the 
digital medical device (including SOUP) and performing tests during the integration 
process in the digital medical device development plan. 
1.1.3 Validation Planning for Digital Medical Device Software 
The organization shall establish and document a validation plan for design and development. 
The validation plan shall include the following: 
(a)  The scope of validation, related activities, and any existing constraints; 
(b)  Validation criteria and validation methods; 
(c)  The environment and tools for performing validation; 
(d)  Qualifications of personnel performing validation and the required prerequisite training. 
1.1.4 Establishment of Maintenance Plan for Digital Medical Device Software 
The organization shall establish a maintenance plan to perform the activities and tasks of the 
maintenance process. This plan shall include the following: 
(a)  Procedures for receiving, documenting, evaluating, resolving, and tracking feedback 
arising after release of the digital medical device; 
(b)  Criteria for determining which feedback requires action; 
(c)  Use of the risk management process; 
(d)  Use of the problem-resolution process for analyzing and resolving issues that arise after 
distribution of the digital medical device; 
(e)  Use of the digital medical device configuration management process to control changes to 
the existing digital medical device software system; 
(f)  Procedures for evaluating and implementing upgrades, bug fixes, patches, and 
obsolescence-related updates of software of unknown provenance (SOUP). 
1.2  Requirements Analysis 
1.2.1 Definition and Documentation of Software System Requirements 
(a)  The manufacturer shall define and document the software system requirements for each 
software system of the digital medical device. 
(b)  Where applicable, the manufacturer shall include the following in the software system 
requirements: 
1)  Customer-specified requirements; 
2)  Requirements necessary for the stated or intended use, even if not specified by the 
customer; 
3)  Functional and performance requirements; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
442 
 
4)  Inputs to and outputs from the software system; 
5)  Interfaces between the software system and other systems; 
6)  Software-based alarms, warnings, and operational messages; 
7)  Security requirements; 
8)  User interface requirements implemented in the software; 
9)  Data definitions and database requirements; 
10)  Installation and acceptance requirements for software deployed to operational and 
maintenance organizations; 
11)  Requirements related to operation and maintenance methods; 
12)  IT-network-related requirements; 
13)  User maintenance requirements; 
14)  Deployment requirements; 
15)  Regulatory requirements; 
16)  Any additional requirements determined by the organization. 
17)  Risk control measures. 
(c)  Where the customer does not provide documented requirements, the organization shall 
confirm the customer requirements prior to acceptance.  
1.2.2 Updating Software System Requirements 
(a)  When software system requirements are changed, the organization shall update the related 
documents and ensure that the relevant personnel are made aware of the changed 
requirements. 
(b)  When updating existing requirements, including software system requirements, the 
organization shall use the risk management process to re-evaluate activities such as risk 
analysis and risk control. 
(c)  When updating existing requirements, including software system requirements, the 
organization shall ensure that they are appropriately re-evaluated and updated through 
requirements analysis activities. 
1.2.3 Verification of Software System Requirements 
(a)  Prior to committing to supply the device to the customer, the organization shall perform 
requirements verification and shall ensure the following: 
1)  Device requirements are defined and documented; 
2)  Any contract or order requirements differing from those previously expressed are 
resolved; 
3)  Applicable statutory requirements are met; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
443 
 
4)  User training is possible or planned to be made possible; 
5) 
The organization has the capability to meet the specified requirements. 
(b)  The organization shall verify and document the software system requirements, including 
the following: 
1)  Whether risk control elements are included when implementing the requirements; 
2)  Whether any conflicts exist between requirements; 
3)  Whether clear terminology has been used; 
4)  Whether test results and criteria are described using recognized terminology; 
5)  Whether unique identifiers are used; 
6)  Whether traceability to system requirements or other sources is ensured. 
(c)  Records of verification results and any actions taken based on the verification shall be 
maintained. 
1.3  Design and Development 
1.3.1 Software Design and Development Inputs 
(a)  When preparing the software development plan, the organization shall refer to the 
software system requirements as inputs for development. 
(b)  The organization shall determine and maintain records of inputs related to software 
requirements. These inputs shall include the following:  
1)  Functional, performance, usability, and safety requirements necessary for the 
intended use; 
2)  Applicable statutory requirements and standards; 
3)  Applicable risk management outputs; 
4)  Information derived from previous similar designs, where applicable; 
5)  Other requirements essential to the design and development of the digital medical 
device and processes. 
(c)  Inputs to the design and development process shall be reviewed for appropriateness and 
approved. 
1.3.2 Software Design and Development Outputs 
(a)  The organization shall determine and maintain records of outputs related to software 
requirements. These outputs shall include the following:  
1)  Meet the design and development input requirements; 
2)  Provide appropriate information for purchasing, production, and service provision; 
3)  Include or reference the acceptance criteria for the digital medical device;  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
444 
 
4)  Specifying the characteristics of the device essential for safe and proper use. 
(b)  Outputs of the design and development process shall be provided in a form that enables 
verification against the design and development inputs and shall be approved prior to 
release.  
1.3.3 Software Architecture Design 
(a)  The organization shall describe the architecture of the software system or software items 
and shall document the software system requirements using the architecture. 
(b)  The organization shall develop and document the architecture of interfaces between 
software items and external components (both software and hardware), as well as between 
software items. 
(c)  Where software items include software of unknown provenance (SOUP), the organization 
shall specify the functional and performance requirements essential to the intended use of 
the SOUP, as well as the hardware and software requirements. 
(d)  The organization shall identify the separations between software items that are essential 
for risk control and shall describe the methods used to ensure that such separations are 
effective. 
(e)  The organization shall evaluate the capability of the architectural design to meet the 
requirements and shall identify and specify any necessary actions. 
(f)  The organization shall verify and document the architecture of the software system and 
software items, including the requirements of 1.3.1 and the following. Personnel 
participating in verification shall include not only those responsible for the design but also 
other experts. 
1)  Whether the software system or software item requirements, including those related 
to risk control, are implemented using the software system or software item 
architecture; 
2)  Whether the architecture of the software system or software items can support 
interfaces between software items and between software items and hardware; 
3)  Whether the architecture of the software system or software items can support the 
operation of software of unknown provenance (SOUP). 
(g)  The organization shall maintain records of verification, including the verification 
methods, acceptance criteria, and justification for sample size, along with any statistical 
techniques used. The records shall identify the design under review, the personnel 
involved in the verification, and the date of verification. 
1.3.4 Detailed Software Design 
(a)  The organization shall decompose the software system or software items into software 
units. 
(b)  Where applicable, the organization shall include the following additional acceptance 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
445 
 
criteria for software units in the design: 
1)  Proper event sequencing; 
2)  Data and control flow; 
3)  Planned resource allocation; 
4)  Fault handling (fault definition, detection, and recovery); 
5)  Initialization of variables 
6)  Self-diagnostics; 
7)  Memory management and memory overflow; 
8)  Boundary conditions. 
(c)  The organization shall verify and document the detailed design, including the 
requirements of 1.3.1 and 1.3.2, and the following, to enable implementation of each 
software unit. Personnel participating in the verification shall include not only those 
responsible for the design but also other experts. 
1)  Whether the software architecture has been implemented using the detailed design; 
2)  Whether interfaces between software units and interfaces between software units and 
external components (hardware or software) are implemented using the detailed 
design; 
3)  Whether the detailed design is consistent with the software architecture. 
(d)  The organization shall maintain records of verification, including the verification 
methods, acceptance criteria, and justification for sample size, along with any statistical 
techniques used. The records shall identify the design under review, the personnel 
involved in the verification, and the date of verification. 
1.3.5 Implementation of Software Units 
(a)  The organization shall implement each software unit. 
(b)  Before integrating software units into larger software items, the organization shall 
establish acceptance criteria and ensure that the software units meet those criteria. 
(c)  The organization shall establish strategies, methods, and procedures for verifying 
software units. Where verification is performed by testing, the organization shall evaluate 
the adequacy of the test procedures. 
(d)  The organization shall verify the software units and document the results. Personnel 
participating in verification shall include not only those responsible for the design but also 
other experts. 
(e)  The organization shall maintain records of verification, including the verification 
methods, acceptance criteria, and justification for sample size, along with any statistical 
techniques used. The records shall identify the design under review, the personnel 
involved in the verification, and the date of verification. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
446 
 
1.3.6 Design and Development Transfer 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for the transfer of design and development 
outputs to manufacturing. These procedures shall ensure that the design and development 
outputs have been verified as suitable for manufacturing before becoming the final 
production specifications and that manufacturing capability can meet device 
requirements.  
(b)  Records of the results and conclusions of the transfer shall be maintained. 
1.3.7 Control of Design and Development Changes 
(a)  The organization shall document procedures for controlling design and development 
changes. The organization shall determine the significance of changes to the function, 
performance, usability, safety, applicable statutory requirements, and intended use of the 
medical device. 
(b)  Design and development changes shall be identified. Prior to implementation, the changes 
shall be reviewed, verified, and approved. Validation shall be included where applicable. 
(c)  Review of design and development changes shall include evaluation of the impact on 
components, devices in manufacturing or already delivered, risk management inputs or 
outputs, and the requirements of 1.1.1.  
(d)  Records of the changes, the review of the changes, and any necessary actions shall be 
maintained. 
1.4  Testing 
1.4.1 Software Integration 
(a)  The organization shall integrate software units in accordance with the integration plan. 
(b)  The organization shall verify and document the process and results of integrating software 
units into the software system or software items in accordance with the integration plan. 
Personnel participating in the verification shall include not only those responsible for the 
design but also other experts. 
(c)  The organization shall maintain records of verification, including verification methods, 
acceptance criteria, and justification for sample size, along with any statistical techniques 
used. The records shall identify the personnel involved and the verification date. 
1.4.2 Software Integration Testing 
(a)  The organization shall evaluate the adequacy of the integration test procedures. 
(b)  The organization shall test the software system or software items resulting from 
integration of the software units in accordance with the integration plan and shall 
document the results. 
(c)  Through integration testing, the organization shall confirm that the software system or 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
447 
 
software items resulting from integration of the software units function as intended. 
(d)  When integrating software units, the organization shall perform appropriate regression 
testing to demonstrate that defects have not been introduced into previously integrated 
software systems or software items. 
(e)  The organization shall maintain integration test records, including test results 
(conformity/nonconformity, list of deviations), records for repeated testing, and the 
identity of the tester. The records shall identify the personnel involved in the verification 
and the verification date. 
(f)  The organization shall feed anomalies identified during software integration and 
integration testing into the software problem-resolution process. 
1.4.3 Software System Testing 
(a)  The organization shall evaluate the adequacy of the verification strategy and test 
procedures. 
(b)  The organization shall establish and perform test configurations—expressed as input 
values, expected outputs, pass/fail criteria, and procedures—in software system testing to 
address all digital medical device requirements. 
(c)  The organization shall feed anomalies identified during software system testing into the 
software problem-resolution process. 
(d)  For changes that arise during software system testing, the organization shall: 
1)  Repeat testing as appropriate and perform revised or additional tests to verify that the 
changes made to resolve issues are effective. 
2)  Perform tests to demonstrate that no unintended side effects have been introduced. 
3)  Perform risk-management activities for the change. 
(e)  The organization shall evaluate software system test results, including the following: 
1)  Verification that all digital medical device requirements have been tested, or 
confirmation that untested requirements have been addressed. 
2)  Records demonstrating traceability between digital medical device requirements and 
tests or other verification activities. 
3)  Confirmation that test results meet the required pass/fail criteria. 
(f)  The organization shall maintain software system test records, including the following: 
1)  References to test-case procedures showing the required functions and expected 
results; 
2)  Test results (pass/fail, list of nonconformities); 
3)  Version of the software tested; 
4)  Appropriate hardware and software test setup; 
5)  Appropriate test tools; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
448 
 
6)  Date of testing; 
7)  Identification of personnel responsible for conducting the test and recording the 
results. 
1.4.4 Validation 
(a)  Validation shall be performed according to planned and documented methods to ensure 
that the resulting device meets the requirements for its intended use or specified 
application.  
(b)  The organization shall document a validation plan that includes the validation methods, 
acceptance criteria, and, where applicable, the rationale for sample size. 
(c)  Design validation shall be performed on representative devices. Representative devices 
include initial production units, batches, or equivalent devices. The rationale for selecting 
devices used for validation shall be documented. 
(d)  As part of design and development validation, the organization shall conduct a clinical 
evaluation in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. 
(e)  A digital medical device used for clinical evaluation shall not be considered as shipped for 
customer use. 
(f)  If, in its intended use, the digital medical device is required to be connected or interfaced 
with another medical device or digital medical device, validation shall include 
confirmation that the device requirements for the specified application or intended use are 
met when so connected or interfaced.  
(g)  Validation shall be completed before the device is released for customer use.  
(h)  Records of the validation results, conclusions, and any necessary actions shall be 
maintained. 
1.5  Distribution 
1.5.1 Software Distribution for System-Level Use 
(a)  The organization shall complete all verification activities and evaluate their results before 
distributing the digital medical device software. 
(b)  The organization shall document all known residual risks. 
(c)  The organization shall assess all known residual risks to ensure that they do not contribute 
to unacceptable risk. 
(d)  The organization shall document the version of the digital medical device software being 
distributed. 
(e)  The organization shall document the procedures and environment used to prepare the 
digital medical device software for distribution. 
(f)  The organization shall ensure that all digital medical device software development plan 
(or maintenance plan) activities and tasks are completed in accordance with the relevant 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
449 
 
documentation. 
1.5.2 Software Record Retention 
(a)  The organization shall record and retain the following: 
1)  Software and configuration items 
2)  Documentation 
(b)  The retention period shall be the longer of the digital medical device software lifetime 
defined by the organization or the period specified by applicable regulatory requirements. 
(c)  The organization shall establish procedures to verify that the digital medical device 
software has been reliably distributed without alteration or unauthorized change. Such 
procedures shall take into account the production and handling of media containing the 
software, including duplication, media labeling, packaging, protection, storage space, and 
distribution. 
1.6  Maintenance  
1.6.1 Establishment of Maintenance Plan 
The organization shall establish a maintenance plan that includes the following items to 
conduct maintenance process activities and tasks.  
(a)  Procedures for receiving, documenting, evaluating, resolving, and tracking feedback; 
(b)  Criteria for determining which feedback requires action; 
(c)  Use of the risk management process; 
(d)  Use of the problem-resolution process for analyzing and resolving issues that occur after 
distribution of the digital medical device software; 
(e)  Use of the configuration management process for managing changes to the digital medical 
device software; 
(f)  Procedures for evaluating and implementing updates, defect corrections, patches, and 
retirement of software of unknown provenance (SOUP).  
1.6.2 Documentation and Evaluation of Feedback 
(a)  The organization shall monitor feedback on distributed digital medical device software. 
(b)  The organization shall document and evaluate feedback to determine whether any 
problems exist in the distributed digital medical device software. All identified problems 
shall be recorded in a problem report. A problem report shall include actual or potential 
adverse events and deviations from specifications. 
(c)  The organization shall evaluate each problem report to determine its impact on the safety 
of the distributed digital medical device software and to identify the changes necessary 
for problem resolution. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
450 
 
1.6.3 Use of Software Problem Resolution Process 
The organization shall use Section 2.4 to address problem reports. 
2.  Life Cycle Support Processes 
2.1  Risk Management 
2.1.1 Software Risk Management Plan 
(a)  The organization shall document one or more processes for risk management during 
realization of digital medical device software, and records of risk management activities 
shall be maintained.  
(b)  The organization shall include or reference in the digital medical device development plan 
the planning necessary to perform the activities and tasks required under the risk 
management process for software items of the digital medical device, including SOUP. 
(c)  Where applicable, the organization shall include the following procedures in the risk 
management plan: 
1)  Identification of defect categories that may be introduced based on the programming 
techniques adopted for the software system or item; 
2)  Documentation of evidence demonstrating that the identified defects do not 
contribute to unacceptable risk. 
2.1.2 Software Risk Analysis and Evaluation 
(a)  The organization shall identify hazards related to the software system or item that were 
identified during the medical device risk analysis activities under ISO 14971. 
(b)  The organization shall identify potential hazardous situations associated with the software 
system or item that contribute to hazardous situations and, where applicable, shall 
consider potential hazardous situations including the following: 
1)  Incorrect or incomplete functional specifications; 
2)  Software defects in the identified software system or item functions; 
3)  Failures or unexpected outcomes caused by software of unknown provenance 
(SOUP); 
4)  Hardware failures or other software defects that may cause unexpected software 
behavior; 
5)  Reasonably foreseeable misuse. 
(c)  Where failures or unexpected outcomes caused by software of unknown provenance 
(SOUP) constitute potential hazards that may contribute to a hazardous situation, the 
organization shall, at a minimum, evaluate the list of all known issues for the SOUP 
components used in the digital medical device to determine whether such issues could 
initiate a sequence of events leading to a hazardous situation. This evaluation shall be 
based on the list of issues provided by the software of unknown provenance (SOUP) 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
451 
 
supplier. 
(d)  The organization shall document in the risk management file the potential hazardous 
situations of the software system or item that affect hazardous situations. 
(e)  The organization shall analyze changes to software within the digital medical device, 
including software of unknown provenance (SOUP), to determine: 
1)  Whether additional potential hazardous situations are found to contribute to 
hazardous situations; 
2)  Whether additional software systems or items require risk control measures. 
(f)  The organization shall analyze changes to the software system or item, including software 
of unknown provenance (SOUP), to determine whether such changes may affect existing 
risk control measures. 
2.1.3 Software Risk Control 
(a)  Where a software system or item can affect a hazardous situation, the organization shall 
define and document risk control measures for each software system or item as 
documented in the risk management file. 
(b)  Where risk control measures are implemented as part of the functions of a software 
system or item, the organization shall perform the following: 
1)  Include the risk control measures in the software requirements of the digital medical 
device; 
2)  Assign a software safety classification, based on the risk controlled by the risk 
control measure, to each software system or item that contributes to implementation 
of the risk control measure; 
3)  Develop the software items in accordance with subparagraph 1). 
(c)  The organization shall verify the implementation of each documented risk control 
measure and shall document the verification. 
(d)  The organization shall determine whether new hazardous situations have arisen and shall 
review the risk control measures. 
2.1.4 Ensuring Traceability for Software Risk Management 
The organization shall adequately document the traceability of hazards related to the software 
system or item, including the following: 
(a)  From the hazardous situation to the software item; 
(b)  From the software system or item to the specific software cause; 
(c)  From the software cause to the risk control measure; 
(d)  From the risk control measure to the verification of the risk control measure. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
452 
 
2.1.5 Performance of Software Risk Management 
The organization shall perform the risk management activities defined in Sections 2.1.1, 2.1.3, 
and 2.1.4 based on Section 2.1.2. 
2.1.6 Performance of Risk Management for Legacy Software 
(a)  Legacy software shall either comply with Annex 3 or demonstrate conformity as 
presented in Section 2.1.6. 
(b)  When legacy software is used, the organization shall evaluate all feedback—internal or 
from users—related to incidents or events associated with the legacy software, including 
post-production information, and shall comply with a risk management process in 
accordance with ISO 14971. 
(c)  The organization shall perform risk management activities related to the continued use of 
legacy software by considering the following elements: 
1)  Integration of the legacy software into the overall medical device architecture; 
2)  Continued effectiveness of risk control measures implemented as part of the legacy 
software; 
3)  Identification of hazardous situations associated with continued use of the legacy 
software; 
4)  Identification of potential causes in the legacy software that contribute to hazardous 
situations; 
5)  Definition of risk control measures for each potential cause in the legacy software 
that contributes to hazardous situations. 
(d)  For legacy software, the manufacturer shall perform a gap analysis of valid outputs. 
1)  The organization shall assess the continued validity of the valid outputs. 
2)  Where gaps are identified, the organization shall evaluate whether the risks arising 
from missing activities and outputs can be reduced. 
3)  Based on this evaluation, the organization shall determine the activities to be 
performed and the outputs to be generated, and shall produce, at a minimum, 
software system test records. 
(e)  Gap closure activities 
1)  The organization shall establish and execute a plan to generate the identified outputs. 
Where possible, the organization may generate the required outputs using objective 
evidence. 
2)  The plan shall use the problem-resolution process under Section 2.4 to address issues 
identified in the legacy software and its outputs. 
3)  Changes to the legacy software shall be performed in accordance with Section 1.6. 
(f)  The organization shall document the version of the legacy software together with the 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
453 
 
justification for its continued use. 
2.2  Control of Outsourced Processes 
2.2.1 Outsourcing Management Process 
(a)  Where the organization outsources devices that affect the conformity requirements of the 
digital medical device, the organization shall ensure that the outsourced devices are 
monitored and controlled. 
(b)  The organization shall retain responsibility for compliance with this GMP, customer 
requirements, and applicable statutory requirements for outsourced devices. 
(c)  Control of outsourced devices shall be proportionate to the associated risks and to the 
capability of the contracted supplier to meet the requirements of the purchasing process, 
and shall include a written quality agreement. 
(d)  The organization shall plan monitoring and re-evaluation of suppliers. 
(e)  The organization shall establish criteria for evaluating and selecting suppliers, and such 
criteria shall be based on: 
1)  The supplier’s capability to provide devices that meet the organization’s 
requirements; 
2)  The supplier’s performance; 
3)  The effect of the outsourced device on the quality of the software; 
4)  Proportionality to the risks associated with the software. 
(f)  The organization shall plan monitoring and re-evaluation of suppliers. The organization 
shall monitor the performance of suppliers that provide outsourced devices to ensure that 
the requirements for the outsourced devices are met. The results of monitoring shall be 
provided as inputs to the supplier re-evaluation process.  
(g)  Non-fulfillment of outsourcing requirements shall be addressed with the supplier, 
proportionate to the risks associated with the outsourced device and compliance with 
applicable regulatory requirements. 
(h)  Records of the results of evaluation, selection, monitoring, and re-evaluation of suppliers 
and of any necessary actions arising from these activities shall be maintained. 
2.2.2 Outsourcing Information 
(a)  Where applicable, the organization shall describe or reference outsourcing information, 
including:  
1)  Device specifications; 
2)  Requirements for device approval, procedures, processes, and equipment; 
3)  Requirements for the qualification of supplier personnel; 
4)  Software quality management system requirements. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
454 
 
(b)  Before communicating with the supplier, the organization shall ensure the adequacy of the 
specified outsourcing requirements. 
(c)  Where applicable, the organization shall include a written agreement requiring the 
supplier to notify the organization of changes to devices that meet the organization’s 
outsourcing requirements, prior to implementing changes that may affect the functionality 
of the outsourced device. 
(d)  The organization shall maintain documentation and records of relevant outsourcing 
information to the extent required for traceability. 
2.2.3 Verification of Outsourced Devices 
(a)  The organization shall establish and perform inspections or other activities necessary to 
ensure that outsourced devices conform to specified requirements. The extent of 
verification activities shall be proportionate to the risks associated with the outsourced 
device, based on the results of supplier evaluation.  
(b)  When the organization becomes aware of any changes to the outsourced device, it shall 
determine whether such changes affect the device realization process or the software. 
(c)  Where the organization or its customer intends to verify outsourced devices at the 
supplier’s premises, it shall specify the intended verification activities and the release 
arrangements for the devices within the outsourcing information.  
(d)  Records of verification shall be maintained. 
2.3  Configuration Management 
2.3.1 Configuration Management Plan for Digital Medical Devices 
(a)  The organization shall include or reference configuration management information for the 
digital medical device in the development plan, including:  
1)  Safety classification, types, categories, or the list of items to be controlled; 
2)  Software-related configuration management activities and tasks included in the 
digital medical device; 
3)  Organizations 
responsible 
for 
performing 
software-related 
configuration 
management activities included in the digital medical device; 
4)  Relationships with other organizations responsible for software-related development 
or maintenance included in the digital medical device; 
5)  The point at which items are placed under configuration control; 
6)  Points at which the problem-resolution process shall be applied; 
(b)  The organization shall plan for configuration items to be under configuration control prior 
to verification of the configuration items. 
(c)  Items requiring control include tools, items, or settings used for software-related 
development included in the digital medical device, and these items may affect the 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
455 
 
software. 
2.3.2 Configuration Identification for Digital Medical Devices 
(a)  The organization shall establish a plan to uniquely identify configuration items and their 
versions in order to control configuration items in accordance with Section 2.3.1. 
(b)  The organization shall document configuration items for each software of unknown 
provenance (SOUP) used, including the standard library and information such as the title, 
manufacturer, and unique SOUP identifier. 
2.3.3 Configuration Control for Digital Medical Devices 
(a)  The organization shall identify approved change requests that affect the distributed digital 
medical device.  
(b)  The organization shall change and control configuration items identified in accordance 
with Sections 2.3.1 and 2.3.2 only on the basis of approved change requests. 
(c)  The organization shall implement changes as specified in the documentation associated 
with the change request.  
(d)  The organization shall identify and perform all activities that must be repeated as a result 
of the change, including changes to the software safety classification of the software 
system or item. 
(e)  The organization shall verify the change, including repeating any verification invalidated 
by the change. 
(f)  The organization shall maintain records of the dependencies and relationships among 
change requests, related problem reports, and the approvals of those change requests. 
2.3.4 Record Retention for Digital Medical Devices 
The organization shall retain a retrievable record history of controlled configuration items, 
including the system configuration. 
2.3.5 Change Management 
(a)  The organization shall analyze the impact of each change request on the organization, the 
distributed digital medical device software, and systems interfacing with it. 
(b)  The organization shall evaluate and approve change requests that will modify the 
distributed digital medical device software. 
(c)  The organization shall identify and perform the activities in Sections 1 and 2 that must be 
repeated as a result of the change. 
(d)  The organization shall distribute the modified digital medical device software in 
accordance with Section 1.5. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
456 
 
2.4  Problem Resolution Process  
(a)  Preparation of problem reports 
 
The manufacturer shall prepare a report for each problem detected in the software. Each 
problem report shall include additional information that may assist in resolving the 
problem (e.g., affected devices, affected supporting accessories) and a description of the 
problem’s significance (e.g., its impact on performance, safety, or security). 
(b)  Problem investigation 
 
The manufacturer shall perform the following: 
1)  Investigate the problem and identify the cause, where possible; 
2)  Evaluate safety-related issues using risk management (Section 2.1); 
3)  Document the results of the investigation and evaluation; 
4)  The manufacturer shall generate a change request to resolve the problem, or shall 
document the rationale if no problem-resolution activities are necessary. 
(c)  Notification to relevant departments 
 
The manufacturer shall inform the relevant departments that a problem exists. 
(d)  Use of change management process 
 
The manufacturer shall approve and implement all change requests in accordance with the 
requirements of change management (Section 2.3.5). 
(e)  Record maintenance 
 
The manufacturer shall maintain records of the problem reports and of the problem-
resolution activities, including verification. The manufacturer shall update the risk 
management file as appropriate. 
(f)  Analysis of problem trends 
 
The manufacturer shall analyze problem reports to identify trends. 
(g)  Verification of software problem resolution 
 
The manufacturer shall verify the problem resolution to determine: 
1)  Whether the problem has been resolved and the problem report has been closed; 
2)  Whether negative trends have been reversed; 
3)  Whether the change request has been implemented in the appropriate software and 
activities; 
4)  Whether additional problems have emerged. 
(h)  Contents of test documentation 
 
The manufacturer shall include the following information in the test documentation when 
testing, re-testing, or performing regression testing of software items and the system after 
changes: 
1)  Test results; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
457 
 
2)  Detected anomalies; 
3)  Software version tested; 
4)  Relevant hardware and software test configurations; 
5)  Relevant test tools; 
6)  Date of testing; 
7)  Identity of the tester. 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
458 
 
[Annex 4] 
Criteria for AI Control Measures Assessment for Digital Medical 
Devices (Related to Article 5) 
1.  General Requirements 
1.1  AI Control Measures 
(a)  The organization shall determine the necessary AI control measures for the quality 
management of AI/ML software systems or items included in digital medical devices and 
shall apply such measures throughout the organization. 
1)  Management 
responsibility, 
including 
management 
involvement, 
policy 
establishment, and implementation; 
2)  Risk management, including identification, evaluation, and mitigation of potential 
risks of AI/ML software; 
3)  Governance structure, including responsibilities, decision-making, and approval 
procedures; 
4)  Data handling, including quality control of training data and data de-identification 
measures; 
5)  Design and implementation of AI models;  
6)  Development of AI/ML software systems combining training data and AI models; 
7)  Operation and monitoring, including periodic accuracy verification of AI/ML 
software. 
(b)  AI control measures defined by the organization shall include the following: 
1)  Process inputs, including, where applicable, outputs from processes performed prior 
to the process input stage and other materials recorded in the document control 
system within the quality control system;  
2)  Procedures for performing activities within the process; 
3)  Process outputs, including the outputs generated from the processes performed.  
(c)  The determined AI control measures may be defined as activities within the existing 
software life cycle processes of the quality management system or as independent 
software life cycle processes. In either case, the measures shall be documented, execution 
records shall be retained, and outputs shall be documented. 
(d)  Where certain requirements are not applicable due to the activities performed by the 
organization or the characteristics of the software, the organization may exclude such 
requirements. Provided, however, that the organization shall record the justification and 
the basis for determining each requirement to be not applicable. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
459 
 
1.2  Management Responsibility 
(a)  Top management shall demonstrate its commitment to the development and 
implementation of AI control measures and to maintaining their effectiveness through the 
following:  
1)  Establishment of an AI policy; 
2)  Establishment of AI objectives; 
3)  Conduct of reviews. 
(b)  Top management shall ensure that the AI Policy: 
1)  Is appropriate to the purpose of the organization; 
2)  Includes a commitment to meeting requirements and maintaining the effectiveness of 
the AI/ML software system; 
3)  Provides a framework for establishing and reviewing AI objectives; 
4)  Is communicated within the organization; 
5)  Is reviewed for continuing suitability. 
(c)  Top management shall ensure that AI Objectives include what is necessary to meet 
applicable regulatory requirements and product requirements, and that they are 
established at relevant functions and levels within the organization.  
(d)  AI Objectives shall be measurable and consistent with the quality policy. 
(e)  Top management shall conduct management reviews that include the following: 
1)  Documentation of procedures for management review related to AI control 
measures; 
2)  Review of AI control measures at documented and planned intervals to ensure their 
continuing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness; 
3)  Evaluation of the need for changes and opportunities for improvement of AI control 
measures, including the AI policy and AI objectives. 
(f)  Records of management review shall be documented and maintained. 
1.3  Resource Management 
(a)  The organization shall determine and provide the resources needed for: 
1)  Implementation of AI control measures and maintenance of their effectiveness; 
2)  Meeting applicable regulatory requirements and customer requirements. 
(b)  Personnel performing tasks related to AI control measures shall be competent based on 
appropriate education, training, skills, and experience.  
(c)  The organization shall establish the competencies required for personnel involved in the 
operation of AI control measures, provide necessary training, and document processes to 
ensure personnel awareness. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
460 
 
(d)  The organization shall implement the following for the operation of AI control measures:  
1)  Determine the competencies needed for personnel performing work that affects 
product quality;  
2)  Provide training or implement other actions to achieve or maintain the necessary 
competence;  
3)  Evaluate the effectiveness of the actions taken; 
4)  Ensure that personnel are aware of the relevance and importance of their activities 
and how they contribute to the achievement of quality objectives;  
5)  Maintain appropriate records of education, training, skills, and experience. 
2.  Risk Management 
(a)  A risk management plan for AI/ML software systems or items included in digital medical 
devices shall be established and implemented. 
(b)  Risk management for AI/ML software systems or items included in digital medical 
devices shall meet the requirements of Annex 2, Section 7.1. 
3.  Governance Structure 
(a)  The organization shall establish the ethical principles and rules that must be implemented 
internally as follows:  
1)  Adopt and organize laws, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines related to 
medical artificial intelligence, and establish internal guidance and rules to be 
implemented; 
2)  Clearly document the organization’s roles and responsibilities throughout the life 
cycle of artificial intelligence systems. 
(b)  The organization shall establish an artificial intelligence governance structure appropriate 
to the size of the organization and to the AI/ML software systems or items included in the 
digital medical device:  
1)  Structuring the organization to manage the implementation of ethical principles and 
rules; 
2)  Where applicable, structuring the organization to include external experts (e.g., 
physicians, nurses, data scientists, clinical or quality professionals, and relevant 
academic experts).  
(c)  The organization shall manage and oversee the following to ensure proper 
implementation of the artificial intelligence governance structure:  
1)  Compliance with ethical principles and rules to be implemented internally; 
2)  Monitoring of the target performance of AI/ML software systems or items included 
in the digital medical device; 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
461 
 
3)  Decisions on the retirement of AI/ML software systems or items included in the 
digital medical device; 
4)  Documentation of records related to the implementation of the artificial intelligence 
governance structure.  
4.  Reliability Assurance Planning 
The organization shall, where applicable, plan and implement the necessary activities to reduce 
the uncertainty of AI/ML system output results, including the following elements:  
(a)  Establishment of a virtual testing environment using simulators or equivalent tools; 
(b)  Establishment of a consultative framework to determine the expected outputs of AI/ML 
software systems or items included in the digital medical device;  
(c)  Establishment of a user evaluation group to verify the explanation or interpretation of 
expected outputs of AI/ML software systems or items included in the digital medical 
device.  
5.  Management of Training Data for AI/ML Functions 
(a)  The organization shall perform the necessary data collection and processing activities, 
including the following elements, to provide safe and reliable AI/ML functions:  
1)  Detailed information management to support clear understanding and utilization of 
data; 
2)  Recording and management of data sources; 
3)  Identification and inspection of anomalies in the data, where applicable.  
(b)  Where applicable, the organization shall perform the necessary activities for the safety 
and security of training data, including the following elements: 
1)  Defense against attacks such as data poisoning and data leakage; 
2)  Mitigation of bias in training data. 
6.  Development of AI Models Related to AI/ML Functions 
(a)  When using open-source libraries, the organization shall perform risk management related 
to their use and shall document the results.  
1)  Verification of the stability of open-source libraries, including use of actively 
maintained libraries; 
2)  Verification of license compliance for open-source libraries in use; 
3)  Verification of compatibility and security vulnerabilities of open-source libraries in 
use. 
(b)  Where applicable, the organization shall perform the necessary activities to provide the 
safety and reliability of AI models related to AI/ML functions, including the following 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
462 
 
elements.  
1)  A model specification describing the mechanism, performance, and precautions of 
the AI model; 
2)  Analysis and mitigation of bias in the AI model; 
3)  Establishment of defense measures against attacks on the AI model, such as model 
extraction and model evasion; 
4)  Provision of explanations for the inference results of the AI model. 
7.  Development of Systems Related to AI/ML Functions 
The organization shall perform the necessary activities to ensure the safety and reliability of 
software systems or items related to AI/ML functions included in digital medical devices, 
including the following elements.  
1)  Provision of alert functions in the event of a problem in the artificial intelligence 
system; 
2)  Application of security techniques to enhance the security of the artificial 
intelligence system; 
3)  Mitigation of bias caused by source code and user interfaces, where applicable; 
4)  Establishment and notification of evaluation metrics for performance degradation of 
the artificial intelligence system, where applicable. 
8.  Operation and Monitoring Related to AI/ML Functions 
The organization shall perform the necessary activities to ensure the safety and reliability 
during the operation and monitoring of AI/ML functions, including the following elements.  
1)  Provision of descriptions, such as purpose, scope, constraints, and disclaimers, to 
guide the proper use of the artificial intelligence system; 
2)  Establishment of traceability measures for the decision-making of the artificial 
intelligence system, such as system logs, where applicable. 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
463 
 
[Annex 5] 
Product Groups for Digital Medical Devices 
(Related to Articles 4, 6, and 7) 
 
1. 
Digital Medical Device Software 
Number 
Product group 
1 
Includes artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) functions 
2 
Does not include artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) functions 
 
2.  Medical Device Hardware 
Number 
Product group 
1 
Machinery 
2 
Instruments 
3 
Supplies 
4 
Dental materials 
5 
In vitro diagnostic medical device machinery 
6 
In vitro diagnostic medical device reagents 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
464 
 
[Annex 6] 
Selection of Core Products 
(Article 7) 
 
1. 
Where two or more products are applied for, the core product shall be selected in the following 
order for each product group of the relevant manufacturing site or manufacturer. 
(a)  Products that include artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) functions 
(b)  Products with the highest applicable classification 
(c)  Products with the highest production or import performance 
 
2.  Guidelines for selecting the core product 
(a)  Where multiple model names exist within the same product item, the product to be 
assessed shall be selected by comprehensively considering product characteristics, 
structure, raw materials, and other relevant factors. 
(b)  If the core product belonging to the highest classification level has no production or 
import performance, the product with the highest production or import performance 
among products of the next classification level shall be selected. 
(c)  If both the classification and production performance of the products under review are 
identical, the applicant shall select the core product in consultation with the head of the 
agency entrusted with certification-related duties.  
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
465 
 
[Annex 7] 
Issuance and Management of Certificate of Conformity Determination 
(Article 8 (8), Article 9, and Article 10) 
 
1.  The certificate of conformity determination for digital medical devices shall be issued in the 
name of the head of the agency entrusted with certification-related duties. 
2.  Items and Instructions for Completing the Certificate of Conformity Determination 
(a)  General Principles 
1)  Each item of the conformity recognition certificate shall be presented in both Korean 
and English. 
2)  Printing paper specification: 130 g white, A4 (210 × 297 mm) 
(b)  Required entries 
1)  Recognition number 
① Agency code – ② Assessment type – ③ Serial number 
 
①  Agency code: Name of the agency entrusted with certification-related duties. 
②  Assessment type: The assessment type shall be indicated using up to six digits.
  
Assessment type 
A 
B 
C 
D 
1st digit 
Manufacture 
Import 
 
 
2nd digit 
Initial assessment 
Assessment for 
change 
Periodic 
assessment 
 
3rd digit 
Alternative 
assessment 
Not alternative 
assessment 
 
 
4th digit 
Standalone digital 
medical device 
software 
Embedded digital 
medical device 
software 
Medical device 
hardware 
Medical device 
hardware + 
Embedded digital 
medical device 
software 
5th digit 
AI/ML function 
Class I digital 
medical device 
For export 
For clinical use 
6th digit 
Initial issuance 
Reissuance 
 
 
  

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
466 
 
③  Serial number: A sequential number assigned in the order of assessment receipt 
2)  Name of business / License number: State the business name, business type 
(manufacturing 
or 
import), 
and 
license 
number 
as 
stated 
on 
the 
manufacturing/import business license. 
3)  Business address: State the address as shown on the manufacturing/import business 
license; for importers, state only the address of the place of business. 
4)  Name of manufacturing site: State the name of the manufacturing site of the legal 
manufacturer (where applicable) and the manufacturer. 
5)  Address of manufacturing site: State the location of the legal manufacturer (where 
applicable) and the manufacturer. 
6)  Date of issuance: State the date of issuance of the conformity recognition certificate. 
7)  Product group: Indicate according to Annex 5. 
8)  Expiration date: Indicate according to Article 9 of the text. 
9)  GMP mark: Print according to Annex 8. 
10)  Official seal and personal seal: Print one of each clearly, reflecting the appropriate 
colors. 
11)  Changes and administrative actions: Indicate the assessment date, assessment type, 
transfer/acquisition, and other relevant matters. 
12)  Attachments: Describe the interrelationships within the quality management system 
and identify each attachment page by indicating the recognition number (No.) at the 
top left corner. 
13)  Page numbering: When an attachment of the conformity recognition certificate 
exists, indicate the page number at the top right corner (e.g., “Page 1 of 2” when the 
attachment consists of two pages and the current page is the first).  
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
467 
 
[Annex 8] 
Mark for Conformity Determination Assessment 
(Related to Article 12) 
 
1.  Design of the mark for conformity determination assessment 
(a)  Design 
 
(b)  Size ratio: width × height = 1 × 0.83 
(c)  Color code: Pantone 2736CVC 
 
2.  Methods and criteria for marking 
(a)  The mark for conformity determination assessment shall be applied based on the size and 
color specified in item (a), and may be used in various sizes (with the same proportions) 
and colors suitable for the characteristics of the product and its packaging materials; 
provided that the design of the mark shall not be altered. 
(b)  The marking method for the conformity determination assessment described in item (a) 
may be applied to the container, outer case, external packaging, and/or insert package of 
the product in accordance with the labeling requirements under Article 22 of the Digital 
Medical Products Act and Article 33 of the Enforcement Rule of the Act.  
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
468 
 
[Form 1] 
 (1/8) 
Application for Conformity Determination Assessment for Digital 
Medical Devices 
Receipt 
number 
 
Type of 
business 
□ Manufacturing □ Import 
Business 
license 
number 
 
Name of 
business 
Korean: 
English: 
Representative Korean: 
English: 
Quality 
manager 
Name: 
Phone number: 
Address 
Korean: 
English: 
(☎             ) ( FAX             )( E-MAIL             ) 
Name/address 
of 
manufacturing 
site subject to 
assessment 
Legal manufacturer: 
(Name) 
(Location) 
Manufacturer: 
(Name) 
(Location) 
Assessment 
type 
□ Initial assessment   
□ Assessment for change   
□ Periodic assessment  
□ Alternative assessment 
□ Standalone digital medical device software 
□ Embedded digital medical device software 
□ Medical device hardware 
□ Medical device hardware + Embedded digital medical device software 
□ Class I digital medical device 
□ Medical device hardware for clinical investigation 
□ Digital medical device for export 
※ Fill in only if applicable. 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
469 
 
Product 
Product 
group 
□  Standalone digital 
medical device 
software 
□  Embedded digital 
medical device 
software 
AI/ML function 
□  Included 
□ Not included 
□  Medical device 
hardware 
□  Machinery 
□  Instruments 
□  Supplies 
□  Dental materials 
□ IVD 
machinery 
□  IVD reagents 
On-site inspection method 
□ In-person               □ Remote 
Preferred date of on-site 
inspection 
Year Month Day 
Pursuant to Article 7 (1) of the Good Manufacturing Practice for Digital Medical Devices, I 
hereby apply for conformity determination assessment as stated above. 
 
Year Month Day 
Applicant    (Signature or Seal) 
To: Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
※  Required documents 
 
Documents required for the application for conformity determination 
assessment under Article 8 
Fee 
To be 
prescribed 
separately 
210 mm × 297 mm [Standard paper 60 g/㎡ (Recycled)] 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
470 
 
(2/8) 
Submission 
Status 
Required Documents 
Remarks 
(file name, etc.) 
 
1.  Application for conformity determination assessment for 
medical devices 
 
 
2.  Information on digital medical device software subject to 
conformity determination under the GMP 
 
 
3.  Information on the facilities, equipment, and devices of the 
manufacturer, etc. (including the manufacturer of the 
digital medical device intended for import) 
 
 
4.  Organization chart and quality manual (including the 
quality policy) in accordance with the GMP 
 
 
5.  Document control procedures and list of documents in 
accordance with the GMP 
 
 
6.  Procedures and test reports related to finished product 
testing (e.g., final release inspection) of the core product 
 
 
7.  Process flow diagrams, purchasing and outsourcing 
procedures, names of suppliers (including contracted 
suppliers), and scope of work for the core products of each 
product group under Annexes 5 and 6 for a manufacturer 
or manufacturing site; 
 
 
8.  Device Master Records for core products of each product 
group under Annexes 5 and 6, and procedures related to 
cybersecurity against electronic intrusion for a 
manufacturer or manufacturing site. 
 
※ To be filled in only for digital medical device software 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
471 
 
(3/8) 
Submission 
Status 
Required Documents 
Remarks 
(file name, etc.) 
 
1.  Application for conformity determination assessment for 
medical devices 
 
 
2.  Copy of the manufacturing (import) business license or 
conditional manufacturing (import) business license for 
medical devices (excluding medical device hardware for 
initial assessment or investigational use) 
 
 
2-a. Overview of the manufacturing site (including the name of 
the site and the address of each facility; and, if multiple sites 
exist, the names of all manufacturing sites), the organization 
chart, number of employees, and medical devices 
manufactured 
 
 
2-b. Status of facilities for each manufacturing site subject to 
assessment (including floor plans of work areas, test 
laboratories, and storage areas; lists of facilities and 
equipment; cleanroom information, if applicable; and 
procedures related to monitoring and measuring equipment) 
 
 
2-c. Quality manual of the manufacturing site (including the 
scope of the quality control system, documented procedures 
and corresponding reference documents, description of 
interactions among processes, and details of exclusions or 
non-applicable items with their justification) 
 
 
2-d. Procedures and test reports related to finished product 
testing for the core product group of the manufacturing site 
(including evidence demonstrating sterilization, where the 
product is sterile). 
 
 
2-e. Purchasing and outsourcing procedures for the core product 
group of the manufacturing site, names of major suppliers 
(including contracted suppliers), and scope of work. 
 
 
2-f.  Device Master Records for the core product group 
(including descriptions of specific manufacturing processes 
such as sterilization or software, as applicable), and 
procedures for validation of sterilization, where applicable. 
 
 
2-g. Checklist for Annex 2 criteria of the manufacturing site 
 
 
2-h. Declaration of conformity to Annex 2 criteria of the 
manufacturing site 
 
 
3.  Process flow diagrams for the core products by type in 
accordance with Annexes 5 and 6 
 
※ To be filled in only for medical device hardware 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
472 
 
(4/8) 
Submission 
Status 
Required Documents 
Remarks 
(file name, etc.) 
 
1.  Application for conformity determination assessment for 
medical devices 
 
 
2.  Where another manufacturer or importer submits a valid 
certificate of conformity determination under this GMP for 
the relevant manufacturing site or manufacturer 
 
 
3.  Where a manufacturer or importer of medical devices 
(including in vitro diagnostic medical devices) under the 
Medical Device Act or the In Vitro Diagnostic Medical 
Devices Act submits a valid conformity recognition 
certificate for the relevant manufacturing site or 
manufacturer issued in accordance with the Good 
Manufacturing Practice for Medical Devices or the Good 
Manufacturing Practice for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical 
Devices 
 
 
4.  Where, pursuant to Article 4 (1) 2 (b), the relevant 
manufacturing site holds and submits a valid conformity 
recognition certificate issued under the Good Manufacturing 
Practice for Medical Devices or the Good Manufacturing 
Practice for In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices, and the 
certificate covers a product group included in the product 
groups listed in Annex 5 
 
 
5.  Where, pursuant to the text of Article 4 (1) 2 (d), a copy of 
the quality management system conformity recognition 
certificate issued by the regulatory authority or an agency 
delegated by the regulatory authority for a manufacturing 
site whose location has changed, along with the on-site 
inspection results (including any follow-up actions based on 
the inspection results), is submitted 
 
 
6.  Where a copy of the MDSAP conformity recognition 
certificate and the assessment results are submitted, 
including, where nonconformities were identified, the 
nonconformity report issued by the audit organization (AO) 
and the corrective and preventive action plan or results that 
were submitted by the manufacturing site to the AO and 
confirmed by the AO as compliant 
 
 
7.  Process flow diagrams for core products for each product 
group under Annexes 5 and 6 
 
※ Fill in only for alternative assessment 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
473 
 
(5/8) 
Interrelation within the Quality Management System 
Category 
Manufacturing process flow 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In-house or 
supplier 
(specify 
region or 
country, if 
overseas) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal 
manufacturer / 
manufacturer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMP criteria 
Detailed GMP requirements 
Interrelation of the quality control 
system 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 2 
4.  Quality 
Management 
System 
4.1  General Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Documentation Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Management 
Responsibility 
5.1  Management Commitment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Customer Focus 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Quality Policy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.4  Planning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.5  Responsibility, Authority, and 
Communication 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6  Management Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Resource 
Management 
6.1  Provision of Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2  Human Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Infrastructure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Work Environment and 
Contamination Control 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
474 
 
7.  Production 
Realization 
7.1  Planning of Production 
Realization 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2  Customer-Related Processes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3  Design and Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.4  Purchasing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5  Production and Service 
Provision 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.6  Control of Monitoring and 
Measuring Equipment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  Measurement, 
Analysis and 
Improvement 
8.1  General Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.2  Monitoring and Measurement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.3  Control of Nonconforming 
Product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.4  Analysis of Data 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.5  Improvement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
475 
 
(6/8) 
Interrelation within the Quality Management System 
Category 
Manufacturing process flow 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In-house or 
supplier 
(specify 
region or 
country, if 
overseas) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal 
manufacturer / 
manufacturer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMP criteria 
Detailed GMP requirements 
Interrelation of the quality control 
system 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 3 
1.  Life Cycle 
Processes 
1.1  Planning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2  Requirements Analysis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3  Design and Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.4  Testing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.5  Distribution 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.6  Maintenance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Life Cycle 
Support 
Processes 
2.1  Risk Management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Control of Outsourced Processes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3  Configuration Management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4  Problem Resolution Process 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
476 
 
(7/8) 
Interrelation within the Quality Management System 
Category 
Manufacturing process flow 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In-house or 
supplier 
(specify 
region or 
country, if 
overseas) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal 
manufacturer / 
manufacturer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMP criteria 
Detailed GMP requirements 
Interrelation of the quality control 
system 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 4 
1.  General 
Requirements 
1.1  AI Control Measures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2  Management Responsibility 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3  Resource Management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Risk Management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Governance Structure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Reliability Assurance Planning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Management of Training Data for AI/ML Functions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Development of AI Models Related to AI/ML 
Functions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Development of Systems Related to AI/ML Functions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  Operation and Monitoring Related to AI/ML Functions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
477 
 
(8/8) 
Summary Table of Manufacturing Sites and Manufacturers 
Information on manufactured items 
Product 
name 
(Product 
group name) 
Product 
code 
License 
number 
Presence of 
AI/ML 
functions 
Class 
Production / 
Import 
performance 
Status as 
core product 
a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b 
 
 
 
 
 
 
c 
 
 
 
 
 
 
d 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e 
 
 
 
 
 
 
f 
 
 
 
 
 
 
※ This section shall be filled out only when multiple items are held. 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
478 
 
[Form 2]  
 (Front) 
Recognition number (No.):  
 
 
디지털의료기기 제조 및 품질관리기준 적합판정서 
(Certificate of GMP) 
 
 
▪ 
Company Name of Applicant 
  
/ License No. 
 
▪ 
Company Address of Applicant 
 
▪ 
Name of Manufacturer 
 
▪ 
Address of Manufacturer 
 
▪ 
Product Group  
 
▪ 
Core Product 
 
 
디지털의료기기 제조 및 품질관리기준에 적합함을 인정합니다. 
 
(We hereby certify that the above manufacturer complies with Korea Good Manufacturing 
Practices of Digital Medical Devices for the Product Group listed above) 
 
Date of Issue: . . . 
Date of Expiration: . . . 
 
 
Minister of Food and Drug Safety 
Seal  
 210 mm × 297 mm [Standard paper 60 g/㎡ (Recycled)] 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices

(Back Page)

Changes
(Changes History Records of GMP Certificate)

ae] serpin

479

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
480 
 
Recognition number (NO.) 
Interrelation within the Quality Management System 
Category 
Manufacturing process flow 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In-house or 
supplier 
(specify region 
or country, if 
overseas) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal 
manufacturer / 
manufacturer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMP criteria 
Detailed GMP requirements 
Interrelation of the quality control 
system 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 2 
4.  Quality 
Management 
System 
4.1  General Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Documentation Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Management 
Responsibility 
5.1  Management Commitment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Customer Focus 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Quality Policy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.4  Planning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.5  Responsibility, Authority, and 
Communication 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6  Management Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Resource 
Management 
6.1  Provision of Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2  Human Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Infrastructure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Work Environment and 
Contamination Control 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Production 
Realization 
7.1  Planning of Production 
Realization 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2  Customer-Related Processes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3  Design and Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.4  Purchasing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.5  Production and Service 
Provision 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.6  Control of Monitoring and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
481 
 
Measuring Equipment 
8.  Measurement, 
Analysis and 
Improvement 
8.1  General Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.2  Monitoring and Measurement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.3  Control of Nonconforming 
Product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.4  Analysis of Data 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.5  Improvement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
482 
 
Recognition number (NO.) 
Annex 3 
1.  Life Cycle 
Processes 
1.1  Planning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2  Requirements Analysis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3  Design and Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.4  Testing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.5  Distribution 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.6  Maintenance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Life Cycle 
Support 
Processes 
2.1  Risk Management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Control of Outsourced Processes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3  Configuration Management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4  Problem Resolution Process 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
483 
 
Recognition number (NO.) 
Annex 4 
1.  General 
Requirements 
1.1  AI Control Measures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2  Management Responsibility 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3  Resource Management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Risk Management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Governance Structure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Reliability Assurance Planning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Management of Training Data for AI/ML Functions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Development of AI Models Related to AI/ML 
Functions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Development of Systems Related to AI/ML Functions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  Operation and Monitoring Related to AI/ML Functions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
484 
 
[Form 3] 
Report on the Results of Conformity Determination Assessment for Digital Medical Devices 
Type of business 
□ Manufacturing 
□ Import 
Business license 
number 
 
Name of business 
 
Representative 
 
Quality manager 
 
Address 
 
(☎               ) ( FAX                ) 
Assessment type 
□ Initial assessment             □ Assessment for change 
□ Periodic assessment 
□ Alternative assessment 
□ Standalone digital medical device software 
□ Embedded digital medical device software 
□ Medical device hardware 
□ Medical device hardware + Embedded digital medical device software 
□ Class I digital medical device 
□ Medical device hardware for clinical investigation 
□ Digital medical device for export 
※ Fill in only if applicable. 
Method of assessment 
□ On-site inspection □ Remote inspection 
Product 
Product type 
(AI/ML) 
□  Standalone digital medical device software 
 
(□ Included □ Not included) 
□  Embedded digital medical device software 
 
(□ Included □ Not included) 
□  Medical device hardware + Embedded 
digital medical device software 
 
(□ Included □ Not included) 
Product group 
□ Medical device hardware 
(□ Machinery □ Instruments □ Supplies 
□ Dental materials 
□ IVD machinery □ IVD reagents) 
Assessment team 
Affiliation 
Name 
Agency entrusted with 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
485 
 
certification-related 
duties 
Expert 
 
Date of assessment 
(YYYY/MM/DD) 
.   .   .   -   .   .   . 
Assessment result 
□ Conforming □ Additional actions required (by   .   .   ) 
□ Nonconforming 
Pursuant to Article 8 (7) of the Good Manufacturing Practice for Digital Medical Devices, the 
results of the conformity determination assessment are hereby reported as stated above. 
Year  Month  Day 
Head of the Agency Entrusted with Certification-related Duties 
Seal 
 
※ Attachments: One copy of the Conformity Determination Assessment Sheet for Digital Medical 
Devices 
210 mm × 297 mm [Standard paper 60 g/㎡ (Recycled)] 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
486 
 
Facility 
information of the 
manufacturing site 
 
Contact 
information of the 
responsible 
assessment 
department 
 
Number of 
employees subject 
to assessment 
 
Working hours 
(Shift hours, etc.) 
 
Status of 
related 
certifications 
Certification 
body 
Certification 
criteria 
Scope of 
certification 
Expiration date 
 
 
 
 
On-site inspection 
date 
Year month day - year month day 
Information on 
previous 
assessment 
(Fill in only if 
applicable) 
Date of assessment 
 
Audit organization 
 
Auditor(s) 
 
Assessment criteria and 
scope 
 
Assessment result 
 
Action required 
 
Required actions 
and remarks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
487 
 
Interrelation within the Quality Management System 
Category 
Manufacturing process flow 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In-house or 
supplier 
(specify region 
or country, if 
overseas) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal 
manufacturer / 
manufacturer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMP criteria 
Detailed GMP requirements 
Assessment details 
Annex 2 
4.  Quality 
Management 
System 
4.1  General Requirements 
 
4.2  Documentation Requirements 
5.  Management 
Responsibility 
5.1  Management Commitment 
 
5.2  Customer Focus 
5.3  Quality Policy 
5.4  Planning 
5.5  Responsibility, Authority, and 
Communication 
5.6  Management Review 
6.  Resource 
Management 
6.1  Provision of Resources 
 
6.2  Human Resources 
6.3  Infrastructure 
6.4  Work Environment and 
Contamination Control 
7.  Production 
Realization 
7.1  Planning of Production 
Realization 
 
7.2  Customer-Related Processes 
7.3  Design and Development 
7.4  Purchasing 
7.5  Production and Service 
Provision 
7.6  Control of Monitoring and 
Measuring Equipment 
8.  Measurement, 
Analysis and 
Improvement 
8.1  General Requirements 
 
8.2  Monitoring and Measurement 
8.3  Control of Nonconforming 
Product 
8.4  Analysis of Data 
8.5  Improvement 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
488 
 
Interrelation within the Quality Management System 
Category 
Manufacturing process flow 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In-house or 
supplier 
(specify region 
or country, if 
overseas) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal 
manufacturer / 
manufacturer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMP criteria 
Detailed GMP requirements 
Assessment details 
Annex 3 
1.  Life Cycle 
Processes 
1.1  Planning 
 
1.2  Requirements Analysis 
1.3  Design and Development 
1.4  Testing 
1.5  Distribution 
1.6  Maintenance 
2.  Life Cycle 
Support 
Processes 
2.1  Risk Management 
 
2.2  Control of Outsourced 
Processes 
2.3  Configuration Management 
2.4  Problem Resolution Process 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
489 
 
Interrelation within the Quality Management System 
Category 
Manufacturing process flow 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In-house or 
supplier 
(specify region 
or country, if 
overseas) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Legal 
manufacturer / 
manufacturer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMP criteria 
Detailed GMP requirements 
Assessment details 
Annex 4 
1.  General 
Requirements 
1.1  AI Control Measures 
 
1.2  Management Responsibility 
1.3  Resource Management 
2.  Risk Management 
 
3.  Governance Structure 
 
4.  Reliability Assurance Planning 
 
5.  Management of Training Data for AI/ML Functions 
 
6.  Development of AI Models Related to AI/ML 
Functions 
 
7.  Development of Systems Related to AI/ML Functions 
 
8.  Operation and Monitoring Related to AI/ML Functions 
 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
490 
 
[Form 4] 
Periodic Report on the Results of Conformity Determination Assessment for Digital Medical 
Devices (Standalone Digital Medical Device Software) 
Assessment 
period 
.   .   .   -   .   .   .   ( months) 
Assessment 
history 
Category 
Total 
Conforming 
Additional 
action 
required 
Nonconforming 
Standalone 
digital 
medical 
device 
software 
Initial 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
Change 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
Periodic 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Article 14 (1) of the Good Manufacturing Practice for Digital Medical Devices, the 
results of the conformity determination assessment for standalone digital medical device software 
are hereby reported as stated above. 
 
Year   Month   Day 
Head of the Agency Entrusted with Certification-related Duties 
Seal 
 
 
 
 
※  Attachment: One copy of the detailed list of results of conformity determination assessment 
for digital medical devices 
210 mm × 297 mm [Standard paper 60 g/㎡ (Recycled)] 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
491 
 
Periodic Report on the Results of Conformity Determination Assessment for Digital Medical 
Devices (Embedded Digital Medical Device Software) 
Assessment 
period 
.   .   .   -   .   .   .   ( months) 
Assessment 
history 
Category 
Total 
Conforming 
Additional 
action 
required 
Nonconforming 
Embedded 
digital 
medical 
device 
software 
Initial 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
Change 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
Periodic 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Article 14 (1) of the Good Manufacturing Practice for Digital Medical Devices, the 
results of the conformity determination assessment for embedded digital medical device software 
are hereby reported as stated above. 
 
Year   Month   Day 
Head of the Agency Entrusted with Certification-related Duties 
Seal 
 
 
 
 
※  Attachment: One copy of the detailed list of results of conformity determination assessment for 
digital medical devices 
210 mm × 297 mm [Standard paper 60 g/㎡ (Recycled)] 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
492 
 
Periodic Report on the Results of Conformity Recognition Assessments for Digital Medical 
Devices (Medical Device Hardware) 
Assessment 
period 
.   .   .   -   .   .   .   ( months) 
Assessment 
history 
Category 
Total 
Conforming 
Additional 
action 
required 
Nonconforming 
Medical 
device 
hardware 
Initial 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
Change 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
Periodic 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Article 14 (1) of the Good Manufacturing Practice for Digital Medical Devices, the 
results of the conformity recognition assessment for the medical device hardware are hereby 
reported as stated above. 
 
Year   Month   Day 
Head of the Agency Entrusted with Certification-related Duties 
Seal 
 
 
 
 
※  Attachment: One copy of the detailed list of the results of conformity recognition assessments for digital medical devices 
210 mm × 297 mm [Standard paper 60 g/㎡ (Recycled)] 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
493 
 
Periodic Report on the Results of Conformity Recognition Assessments for Digital Medical 
Devices (Embedded Digital Medical Device Software + Medical Device Hardware) 
Assessment 
period 
.   .   .   -   .   .   .   ( months) 
Assessment 
history 
Category 
Total 
Conforming 
Additional 
action 
required 
Nonconforming 
Digital 
medical 
device 
(Embedded 
digital 
medical 
device 
software + 
medical 
device 
hardware) 
Initial 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
Change 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
Periodic 
Manufacture 
 
 
 
 
Import 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Article 14 (1) of the Good Manufacturing Practice for Digital Medical Devices, the 
results of the conformity recognition assessment for the digital medical device are hereby reported 
as stated above. 
 
Year   Month   Day 
Head of the Agency Entrusted with Certification-related Duties 
Seal 
 
 
 
 
※  Attachment: One copy of the detailed list of the results of conformity recognition assessments for digital medical devices 
210 mm × 297 mm [Standard paper 60 g/㎡ (Recycled)] 
 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
494 
 
[Form 5] 
List of Conformity Determination Assessment Results for Digital Medical Devices 
(Standalone Digital Medical Device Software) 
Name of the agency entrusted with certification-
related duties. 
Year     Quarter 
Serial 
number 
Category 
Name of 
company 
Product group 
Assessment 
result 
(Conforming / 
Additional action 
required / 
Nonconforming) 
Remarks 
Manufacture 
/ Import 
Initial / 
Change / 
Periodic / 
Alternative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
210 mm × 297 mm [Standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
495 
 
List of Conformity Determination Assessment Results for Digital Medical Devices 
(Standalone Digital Medical Device Software) 
Name of the agency entrusted with certification-
related duties 
Year   Quarter 
Serial 
number 
Category 
Name of 
company 
Product group 
Assessment 
result 
(Conforming / 
Additional action 
required / 
Nonconforming) 
Remarks 
Manufacture 
/ Import 
Initial / 
Change / 
Periodic / 
Alternative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
210 mm × 297 mm [Standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
496 
 
List of Conformity Recognition Assessment Results for Digital Medical Devices 
(Medical Device Hardware) 
Name of the agency entrusted with certification-
related duties. 
Year   Quarter 
Serial 
number 
Category 
Name of 
company 
Product group 
Assessment 
result 
(Conforming / 
Additional action 
required / 
Nonconforming) 
Remarks 
Manufacture 
/ Import 
Initial / 
Change / 
Periodic / 
Alternative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
210 mm × 297 mm [Standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)] 
 

Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for Digital Medical Devices 
 
497 
 
List of Conformity Recognition Assessment Results for Digital Medical Devices (Embedded 
Digital Medical Device Software + Medical Device Hardware) 
Name of the agency entrusted with certification-
related duties. 
Year   Quarter 
Serial 
number 
Category 
Name of 
company 
Product group 
Assessment 
result 
(Conforming / 
Additional action 
required / 
Nonconforming) 
Remarks 
Manufacture 
/ Import 
Initial / 
Change / 
Additional 
/Periodic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
210 mm × 297 mm [Standard paper 60 g/㎡ (recycled)]