■ ENFORCEMENT RULE OF THE MEDICAL DEVICES ACT  [Attached Table 1] <Amended on May 1, 2020>
Standards and Procedures for Medical Device Classification and Designation 
of Classes (In Relation to Article 2)
1. Standards for the Classification of Medical Devices
  A. The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall classify medical devices into 
any of the following four classes through deliberation by the Medical 
Device Committee according to the purpose of use and the degree of 
potential risk to human body. In such case, if a medical device falls 
under two or more of the following classes, it shall be classified into the 
class of the highest risk:
    1) Class I: Medical devices with little potential risk;
    2) Class II: Medical devices with low potential risk;
    3) Class III: Medical devices with moderate potential risk;
    4) Class IV: Medical devices with high risk.
  B. The standard for deciding the degree of potential risk of Item A are as 
follows:
    1) Duration of contact with human body;
    2) Degree of invasiveness;
    3) Whether a device delivers medicine or energy to the patient;
    4) Whether a device has biological impact on the patient.
  C. Deleted. <May 1, 2020>
  D. Deleted. <May 1, 2020>
  E. Detailed standards for the purpose and use and potential risk under 
Items A and B shall be determined and publicly notified by the Minister 
of Food and Drug Safety.
2. Procedures for Designation of Class
  The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall classify medical devices into 
Section, Division, or Group  according to the classification of the following 
items. In such case, items classified as Section and Division shall be 
publicly notified, and items classified as Group shall be publicly notified by 
assigning classification to each item:
  A. Section: Classification of medical devices into each instrument/machine, 
device, or material;
  B. Division: Classification of each Section into product groups with similar 
raw material, manufacturing process, and quality control system:
  C. Group: Classification of each Division into each item where functions are 
demonstrated independently.
3. Application for Class Re-Designation and Designation Procedures
  A. The Minister of Food and Drug Safety may re-designate the class of 
each item through deliberation by the Medical Device Committee when 
there is an application for re-designation from the party concerned, etc., 
or when it is deemed there is a need for such re-designation.
  B. In cases of re-designation, the degree of potential risk and validity of 
such re-designation under the following standards shall be examined:
    1) Whether the description of each item and purpose, use, principle, 

feature, function, etc. of the relevant medical device correspond to 
similar items;
    2) Whether safety and performance of each item are fully secured 
compared to the items already classified to be designated, and 
managed.
  C. A person who intends to apply for class re-designation shall submit an 
application in the Attached Form 54 to the Minister of Food and Drug 
Safety, along with the following data:
    1) Data on technical document, etc.;
    2) Data on comparative analysis of technical characteristics including 
structure/operational principle, performance, purpose of use, methods of 
use, etc. with other devices that are similar to medical devices subject 
to class re-designation.
  D. Upon receiving an application for class re-designation under the 
provisions of Item C, The Minister of Food and Drug Safety shall review 
and decide within 90 days and notify the applicant of the result, and 
notify the public thereof.